# reinforcement learning
## Efficient Online Reinforcement Learning Fine-Tuning Need Not Retain Offline Data
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07762v2
- **Authors**: ['Zhiyuan Zhou', 'Andy Peng', 'Qiyang Li', 'Sergey Levine', 'Aviral Kumar']
- **Abstrat**: The modern paradigm in machine learning involves pre-training on diverse data, followed by task-specific fine-tuning. In reinforcement learning (RL), this translates to learning via offline RL on a diverse historical dataset, followed by rapid online RL fine-tuning using interaction data. Most RL fine-tuning methods require continued training on offline data for stability and performance. However, this is undesirable because training on diverse offline data is slow and expensive for large datasets, and in principle, also limit the performance improvement possible because of constraints or pessimism on offline data. In this paper, we show that retaining offline data is unnecessary as long as we use a properly-designed online RL approach for fine-tuning offline RL initializations. To build this approach, we start by analyzing the role of retaining offline data in online fine-tuning. We find that continued training on offline data is mostly useful for preventing a sudden divergence in the value function at the onset of fine-tuning, caused by a distribution mismatch between the offline data and online rollouts. This divergence typically results in unlearning and forgetting the benefits of offline pre-training. Our approach, Warm-start RL (WSRL), mitigates the catastrophic forgetting of pre-trained initializations using a very simple idea. WSRL employs a warmup phase that seeds the online RL run with a very small number of rollouts from the pre-trained policy to do fast online RL. The data collected during warmup helps ``recalibrate'' the offline Q-function to the online distribution, allowing us to completely discard offline data without destabilizing the online RL fine-tuning. We show that WSRL is able to fine-tune without retaining any offline data, and is able to learn faster and attains higher performance than existing algorithms irrespective of whether they retain offline data or not.





## Learning Sketch Decompositions in Planning via Deep Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.08574v1
- **Authors**: ['Michael Aichmüller', 'Hector Geffner']
- **Abstrat**: In planning and reinforcement learning, the identification of common subgoal structures across problems is important when goals are to be achieved over long horizons. Recently, it has been shown that such structures can be expressed as feature-based rules, called sketches, over a number of classical planning domains. These sketches split problems into subproblems which then become solvable in low polynomial time by a greedy sequence of IW$(k)$ searches. Methods for learning sketches using feature pools and min-SAT solvers have been developed, yet they face two key limitations: scalability and expressivity. In this work, we address these limitations by formulating the problem of learning sketch decompositions as a deep reinforcement learning (DRL) task, where general policies are sought in a modified planning problem where the successor states of a state s are defined as those reachable from s through an IW$(k)$ search. The sketch decompositions obtained through this method are experimentally evaluated across various domains, and problems are regarded as solved by the decomposition when the goal is reached through a greedy sequence of IW$(k)$ searches. While our DRL approach for learning sketch decompositions does not yield interpretable sketches in the form of rules, we demonstrate that the resulting decompositions can often be understood in a crisp manner.





## GenPlan: Generative sequence models as adaptive planners
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.08565v1
- **Authors**: ['Akash Karthikeyan', 'Yash Vardhan Pant']
- **Abstrat**: Offline reinforcement learning has shown tremendous success in behavioral planning by learning from previously collected demonstrations. However, decision-making in multitask missions still presents significant challenges. For instance, a mission might require an agent to explore an unknown environment, discover goals, and navigate to them, even if it involves interacting with obstacles along the way. Such behavioral planning problems are difficult to solve due to: a) agents failing to adapt beyond the single task learned through their reward function, and b) the inability to generalize to new environments not covered in the training demonstrations, e.g., environments where all doors were unlocked in the demonstrations. Consequently, state-of-the-art decision making methods are limited to missions where the required tasks are well-represented in the training demonstrations and can be solved within a short (temporal) planning horizon. To address this, we propose GenPlan: a stochastic and adaptive planner that leverages discrete-flow models for generative sequence modeling, enabling sample-efficient exploration and exploitation. This framework relies on an iterative denoising procedure to generate a sequence of goals and actions. This approach captures multi-modal action distributions and facilitates goal and task discovery, thereby enhancing generalization to out-of-distribution tasks and environments, i.e., missions not part of the training data. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method through multiple simulation environments. Notably, GenPlan outperforms the state-of-the-art methods by over 10% on adaptive planning tasks, where the agent adapts to multi-task missions while leveraging demonstrations on single-goal-reaching tasks.





## An End-to-End Collaborative Learning Approach for Connected Autonomous Vehicles in Occluded Scenarios
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.08562v1
- **Authors**: ['Leandro Parada', 'Hanlin Tian', 'Jose Escribano', 'Panagiotis Angeloudis']
- **Abstrat**: Collaborative navigation becomes essential in situations of occluded scenarios in autonomous driving where independent driving policies are likely to lead to collisions. One promising approach to address this issue is through the use of Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) networks that allow for the sharing of perception information with nearby agents, preventing catastrophic accidents. In this article, we propose a collaborative control method based on a V2V network for sharing compressed LiDAR features and employing Proximal Policy Optimisation to train safe and efficient navigation policies. Unlike previous approaches that rely on expert data (behaviour cloning), our proposed approach learns the multi-agent policies directly from experience in the occluded environment, while effectively meeting bandwidth limitations. The proposed method first prepossesses LiDAR point cloud data to obtain meaningful features through a convolutional neural network and then shares them with nearby CAVs to alert for potentially dangerous situations. To evaluate the proposed method, we developed an occluded intersection gym environment based on the CARLA autonomous driving simulator, allowing real-time data sharing among agents. Our experimental results demonstrate the consistent superiority of our collaborative control method over an independent reinforcement learning method and a cooperative early fusion method.





## Robust Multi-Agent Control via Maximum Entropy Heterogeneous-Agent Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2306.10715v5
- **Authors**: ['Simin Li', 'Yifan Zhong', 'Jiarong Liu', 'Jianing Guo', 'Siyuan Qi', 'Ruixiao Xu', 'Xin Yu', 'Siyi Hu', 'Haobo Fu', 'Qiang Fu', 'Xiaojun Chang', 'Yujing Hu', 'Bo An', 'Xianglong Liu', 'Yaodong Yang']
- **Abstrat**: In multi-agent reinforcement learning, optimal control with robustness guarantees are critical for its deployment in real world. However, existing methods face challenges related to sample complexity, training instability, potential suboptimal Nash Equilibrium convergence and non-robustness to multiple perturbations. In this paper, we propose a unified framework for learning \emph{stochastic} policies to resolve these issues. We embed cooperative MARL problems into probabilistic graphical models, from which we derive the maximum entropy (MaxEnt) objective optimal for MARL. Based on the MaxEnt framework, we propose \emph{Heterogeneous-Agent Soft Actor-Critic} (HASAC) algorithm. Theoretically, we prove the monotonic improvement and convergence to \emph{quantal response equilibrium} (QRE) properties of HASAC. Furthermore, HASAC is provably robust against a wide range of real-world uncertainties, including perturbations in rewards, environment dynamics, states, and actions. Finally, we generalize a unified template for MaxEnt algorithmic design named \emph{Maximum Entropy Heterogeneous-Agent Mirror Learning} (MEHAML), which provides any induced method with the same guarantees as HASAC. We evaluate HASAC on seven benchmarks: Bi-DexHands, Multi-Agent MuJoCo, Pursuit-Evade, StarCraft Multi-Agent Challenge, Google Research Football, Multi-Agent Particle Environment, Light Aircraft Game. Results show that HASAC consistently outperforms strong baselines in 34 out of 38 tasks, exhibiting improved training stability, better sample efficiency and sufficient exploration. The robustness of HASAC was further validated when encountering uncertainties in rewards, dynamics, states, and actions of 14 magnitudes, and real-world deployment in a multi-robot arena against these four types of uncertainties. See our page at \url{https://sites.google.com/view/meharl}.





## MaestroMotif: Skill Design from Artificial Intelligence Feedback
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.08542v1
- **Authors**: ['Martin Klissarov', 'Mikael Henaff', 'Roberta Raileanu', 'Shagun Sodhani', 'Pascal Vincent', 'Amy Zhang', 'Pierre-Luc Bacon', 'Doina Precup', 'Marlos C. Machado', "Pierluca D'Oro"]
- **Abstrat**: Describing skills in natural language has the potential to provide an accessible way to inject human knowledge about decision-making into an AI system. We present MaestroMotif, a method for AI-assisted skill design, which yields high-performing and adaptable agents. MaestroMotif leverages the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) to effectively create and reuse skills. It first uses an LLM's feedback to automatically design rewards corresponding to each skill, starting from their natural language description. Then, it employs an LLM's code generation abilities, together with reinforcement learning, for training the skills and combining them to implement complex behaviors specified in language. We evaluate MaestroMotif using a suite of complex tasks in the NetHack Learning Environment (NLE), demonstrating that it surpasses existing approaches in both performance and usability.





## Subspace-wise Hybrid RL for Articulated Object Manipulation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.08522v1
- **Authors**: ['Yujin Kim', 'Sol Choi', 'Bum-Jae You', 'Keunwoo Jang', 'Yisoo Lee']
- **Abstrat**: Articulated object manipulation is a challenging task, requiring constrained motion and adaptive control to handle the unknown dynamics of the manipulated objects. While reinforcement learning (RL) has been widely employed to tackle various scenarios and types of articulated objects, the complexity of these tasks, stemming from multiple intertwined objectives makes learning a control policy in the full task space highly difficult. To address this issue, we propose a Subspace-wise hybrid RL (SwRL) framework that learns policies for each divided task space, or subspace, based on independent objectives. This approach enables adaptive force modulation to accommodate the unknown dynamics of objects. Additionally, it effectively leverages the previously underlooked redundant subspace, thereby maximizing the robot's dexterity. Our method enhances both learning efficiency and task execution performance, as validated through simulations and real-world experiments. Supplementary video is available at https://youtu.be/PkNxv0P8Atk





## MathDSL: A Domain-Specific Language for Concise Mathematical Solutions Via Program Synthesis
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.17490v3
- **Authors**: ['Sagnik Anupam', 'Maddy Bowers', 'Omar Costilla-Reyes', 'Armando Solar-Lezama']
- **Abstrat**: We present MathDSL, a Domain-Specific Language (DSL) for mathematical equation solving, which, when deployed in program synthesis models, outperforms state-of-the-art reinforcement-learning-based methods. We also introduce a quantitative metric for measuring the conciseness of a mathematical solution and demonstrate the improvement in the quality of generated solutions compared to other methods. Our system demonstrates that a program synthesis system (DreamCoder) using MathDSL can generate programs that solve linear equations with greater accuracy and conciseness than using reinforcement learning systems. Additionally, we demonstrate that if we use the action spaces of previous reinforcement learning systems as DSLs, MathDSL outperforms the action-space-DSLs. We use DreamCoder to store equation-solving strategies as learned abstractions in its program library and demonstrate that by using MathDSL, these can be converted into human-interpretable solution strategies that could have applications in mathematical education.





## AgentMixer: Multi-Agent Correlated Policy Factorization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2401.08728v2
- **Authors**: ['Zhiyuan Li', 'Wenshuai Zhao', 'Lijun Wu', 'Joni Pajarinen']
- **Abstrat**: In multi-agent reinforcement learning, centralized training with decentralized execution (CTDE) methods typically assume that agents make decisions based on their local observations independently, which may not lead to a correlated joint policy with coordination. Coordination can be explicitly encouraged during training and individual policies can be trained to imitate the correlated joint policy. However, this may lead to an \textit{asymmetric learning failure} due to the observation mismatch between the joint and individual policies. Inspired by the concept of correlated equilibrium, we introduce a \textit{strategy modification} called AgentMixer that allows agents to correlate their policies. AgentMixer combines individual partially observable policies into a joint fully observable policy non-linearly. To enable decentralized execution, we introduce \textit{Individual-Global-Consistency} to guarantee mode consistency during joint training of the centralized and decentralized policies and prove that AgentMixer converges to an $\epsilon$-approximate Correlated Equilibrium. In the Multi-Agent MuJoCo, SMAC-v2, Matrix Game, and Predator-Prey benchmarks, AgentMixer outperforms or matches state-of-the-art methods.





## Multi-perspective Alignment for Increasing Naturalness in Neural Machine Translation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.08473v1
- **Authors**: ['Huiyuan Lai', 'Esther Ploeger', 'Rik van Noord', 'Antonio Toral']
- **Abstrat**: Neural machine translation (NMT) systems amplify lexical biases present in their training data, leading to artificially impoverished language in output translations. These language-level characteristics render automatic translations different from text originally written in a language and human translations, which hinders their usefulness in for example creating evaluation datasets. Attempts to increase naturalness in NMT can fall short in terms of content preservation, where increased lexical diversity comes at the cost of translation accuracy. Inspired by the reinforcement learning from human feedback framework, we introduce a novel method that rewards both naturalness and content preservation. We experiment with multiple perspectives to produce more natural translations, aiming at reducing machine and human translationese. We evaluate our method on English-to-Dutch literary translation, and find that our best model produces translations that are lexically richer and exhibit more properties of human-written language, without loss in translation accuracy.





## IRL for Restless Multi-Armed Bandits with Applications in Maternal and Child Health
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.08463v1
- **Authors**: ['Gauri Jain', 'Pradeep Varakantham', 'Haifeng Xu', 'Aparna Taneja', 'Prashant Doshi', 'Milind Tambe']
- **Abstrat**: Public health practitioners often have the goal of monitoring patients and maximizing patients' time spent in "favorable" or healthy states while being constrained to using limited resources. Restless multi-armed bandits (RMAB) are an effective model to solve this problem as they are helpful to allocate limited resources among many agents under resource constraints, where patients behave differently depending on whether they are intervened on or not. However, RMABs assume the reward function is known. This is unrealistic in many public health settings because patients face unique challenges and it is impossible for a human to know who is most deserving of any intervention at such a large scale. To address this shortcoming, this paper is the first to present the use of inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) to learn desired rewards for RMABs, and we demonstrate improved outcomes in a maternal and child health telehealth program. First we allow public health experts to specify their goals at an aggregate or population level and propose an algorithm to design expert trajectories at scale based on those goals. Second, our algorithm WHIRL uses gradient updates to optimize the objective, allowing for efficient and accurate learning of RMAB rewards. Third, we compare with existing baselines and outperform those in terms of run-time and accuracy. Finally, we evaluate and show the usefulness of WHIRL on thousands on beneficiaries from a real-world maternal and child health setting in India. We publicly release our code here: https://github.com/Gjain234/WHIRL.





## Robust Deep Reinforcement Learning Through Adversarial Attacks and Training : A Survey
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00420v2
- **Authors**: ['Lucas Schott', 'Josephine Delas', 'Hatem Hajri', 'Elies Gherbi', 'Reda Yaich', 'Nora Boulahia-Cuppens', 'Frederic Cuppens', 'Sylvain Lamprier']
- **Abstrat**: Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) is a subfield of machine learning for training autonomous agents that take sequential actions across complex environments. Despite its significant performance in well-known environments, it remains susceptible to minor condition variations, raising concerns about its reliability in real-world applications. To improve usability, DRL must demonstrate trustworthiness and robustness. A way to improve the robustness of DRL to unknown changes in the environmental conditions and possible perturbations is through Adversarial Training, by training the agent against well-suited adversarial attacks on the observations and the dynamics of the environment. Addressing this critical issue, our work presents an in-depth analysis of contemporary adversarial attack and training methodologies, systematically categorizing them and comparing their objectives and operational mechanisms.





## Hierarchical Learning for IRS-Assisted MEC Systems with Rate-Splitting Multiple Access
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04002v2
- **Authors**: ['Yinyu Wu', 'Xuhui Zhang', 'Jinke Ren', 'Yanyan Shen', 'Bo Yang', 'Shuqiang Wang', 'Xinping Guan', 'Dusit Niyato']
- **Abstrat**: Intelligent reflecting surface (IRS)-assisted mobile edge computing (MEC) systems have shown notable improvements in efficiency, such as reduced latency, higher data rates, and better energy efficiency. However, the resource competition among users will lead to uneven allocation, increased latency, and lower throughput. Fortunately, the rate-splitting multiple access (RSMA) technique has emerged as a promising solution for managing interference and optimizing resource allocation in MEC systems. This paper studies an IRS-assisted MEC system with RSMA, aiming to jointly optimize the passive beamforming of the IRS, the active beamforming of the base station, the task offloading allocation, the transmit power of users, the ratios of public and private information allocation, and the decoding order of the RSMA to minimize the average delay from a novel uplink transmission perspective. Since the formulated problem is non-convex and the optimization variables are highly coupled, we propose a hierarchical deep reinforcement learning-based algorithm to optimize both continuous and discrete variables of the problem. Additionally, to better extract channel features, we design a novel network architecture within the policy and evaluation networks of the proposed algorithm, combining convolutional neural networks and densely connected convolutional network for feature extraction. Simulation results indicate that the proposed algorithm not only exhibits excellent convergence performance but also outperforms various benchmarks.





## ConDSeg: A General Medical Image Segmentation Framework via Contrast-Driven Feature Enhancement
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.08345v1
- **Authors**: ['Mengqi Lei', 'Haochen Wu', 'Xinhua Lv', 'Xin Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Medical image segmentation plays an important role in clinical decision making, treatment planning, and disease tracking. However, it still faces two major challenges. On the one hand, there is often a ``soft boundary'' between foreground and background in medical images, with poor illumination and low contrast further reducing the distinguishability of foreground and background within the image. On the other hand, co-occurrence phenomena are widespread in medical images, and learning these features is misleading to the model's judgment. To address these challenges, we propose a general framework called Contrast-Driven Medical Image Segmentation (ConDSeg). First, we develop a contrastive training strategy called Consistency Reinforcement. It is designed to improve the encoder's robustness in various illumination and contrast scenarios, enabling the model to extract high-quality features even in adverse environments. Second, we introduce a Semantic Information Decoupling module, which is able to decouple features from the encoder into foreground, background, and uncertainty regions, gradually acquiring the ability to reduce uncertainty during training. The Contrast-Driven Feature Aggregation module then contrasts the foreground and background features to guide multi-level feature fusion and key feature enhancement, further distinguishing the entities to be segmented. We also propose a Size-Aware Decoder to solve the scale singularity of the decoder. It accurately locate entities of different sizes in the image, thus avoiding erroneous learning of co-occurrence features. Extensive experiments on five medical image datasets across three scenarios demonstrate the state-of-the-art performance of our method, proving its advanced nature and general applicability to various medical image segmentation scenarios. Our released code is available at \url{https://github.com/Mengqi-Lei/ConDSeg}.





## SINERGYM -- A virtual testbed for building energy optimization with Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.08293v1
- **Authors**: ['Alejandro Campoy-Nieves', 'Antonio Manjavacas', 'Javier Jiménez-Raboso', 'Miguel Molina-Solana', 'Juan Gómez-Romero']
- **Abstrat**: Simulation has become a crucial tool for Building Energy Optimization (BEO) as it enables the evaluation of different design and control strategies at a low cost. Machine Learning (ML) algorithms can leverage large-scale simulations to learn optimal control from vast amounts of data without supervision, particularly under the Reinforcement Learning (RL) paradigm. Unfortunately, the lack of open and standardized tools has hindered the widespread application of ML and RL to BEO. To address this issue, this paper presents Sinergym, an open-source Python-based virtual testbed for large-scale building simulation, data collection, continuous control, and experiment monitoring. Sinergym provides a consistent interface for training and running controllers, predefined benchmarks, experiment visualization and replication support, and comprehensive documentation in a ready-to-use software library. This paper 1) highlights the main features of Sinergym in comparison to other existing frameworks, 2) describes its basic usage, and 3) demonstrates its applicability for RL-based BEO through several representative examples. By integrating simulation, data, and control, Sinergym supports the development of intelligent, data-driven applications for more efficient and responsive building operations, aligning with the objectives of digital twin technology.





## Improving Deep Reinforcement Learning by Reducing the Chain Effect of Value and Policy Churn
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.04792v2
- **Authors**: ['Hongyao Tang', 'Glen Berseth']
- **Abstrat**: Deep neural networks provide Reinforcement Learning (RL) powerful function approximators to address large-scale decision-making problems. However, these approximators introduce challenges due to the non-stationary nature of RL training. One source of the challenges in RL is that output predictions can churn, leading to uncontrolled changes after each batch update for states not included in the batch. Although such a churn phenomenon exists in each step of network training, how churn occurs and impacts RL remains under-explored. In this work, we start by characterizing churn in a view of Generalized Policy Iteration with function approximation, and we discover a chain effect of churn that leads to a cycle where the churns in value estimation and policy improvement compound and bias the learning dynamics throughout the iteration. Further, we concretize the study and focus on the learning issues caused by the chain effect in different settings, including greedy action deviation in value-based methods, trust region violation in proximal policy optimization, and dual bias of policy value in actor-critic methods. We then propose a method to reduce the chain effect across different settings, called Churn Approximated ReductIoN (CHAIN), which can be easily plugged into most existing DRL algorithms. Our experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our method in both reducing churn and improving learning performance across online and offline, value-based and policy-based RL settings, as well as a scaling setting.





## Coarse-to-Fine: A Dual-Phase Channel-Adaptive Method for Wireless Image Transmission
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.08211v1
- **Authors**: ['Hanlei Li', 'Guangyi Zhang', 'Kequan Zhou', 'Yunlong Cai', 'Guanding Yu']
- **Abstrat**: Developing channel-adaptive deep joint source-channel coding (JSCC) systems is a critical challenge in wireless image transmission. While recent advancements have been made, most existing approaches are designed for static channel environments, limiting their ability to capture the dynamics of channel environments. As a result, their performance may degrade significantly in practical systems. In this paper, we consider time-varying block fading channels, where the transmission of a single image can experience multiple fading events. We propose a novel coarse-to-fine channel-adaptive JSCC framework (CFA-JSCC) that is designed to handle both significant fluctuations and rapid changes in wireless channels. Specifically, in the coarse-grained phase, CFA-JSCC utilizes the average signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) to adjust the encoding strategy, providing a preliminary adaptation to the prevailing channel conditions. Subsequently, in the fine-grained phase, CFA-JSCC leverages instantaneous SNR to dynamically refine the encoding strategy. This refinement is achieved by re-encoding the remaining channel symbols whenever the channel conditions change. Additionally, to reduce the overhead for SNR feedback, we utilize a limited set of channel quality indicators (CQIs) to represent the channel SNR and further propose a reinforcement learning (RL)-based CQI selection strategy to learn this mapping. This strategy incorporates a novel reward shaping scheme that provides intermediate rewards to facilitate the training process. Experimental results demonstrate that our CFA-JSCC provides enhanced flexibility in capturing channel variations and improved robustness in time-varying channel environments.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Real-Time Trajectory Generation for Soft Robot Manipulators Using Differential Flatness
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.08568v1
- **Authors**: ['Akua Dickson', 'Juan C. Pacheco Garcia', 'Ran Jing', 'Meredith L. Anderson', 'Andrew P. Sabelhaus']
- **Abstrat**: Soft robots have the potential to interact with sensitive environments and perform complex tasks effectively. However, motion plans and trajectories for soft manipulators are challenging to calculate due to their deformable nature and nonlinear dynamics. This article introduces a fast real-time trajectory generation approach for soft robot manipulators, which creates dynamically-feasible motions for arbitrary kinematically-feasible paths of the robot's end effector. Our insight is that piecewise constant curvature (PCC) dynamics models of soft robots can be differentially flat, therefore control inputs can be calculated algebraically rather than through a nonlinear differential equation. We prove this flatness under certain conditions, with the curvatures of the robot as the flat outputs. Our two-step trajectory generation approach uses an inverse kinematics procedure to calculate a motion plan of robot curvatures per end-effector position, then, our flatness diffeomorphism generates corresponding control inputs that respect velocity. We validate our approach through simulations of our representative soft robot manipulator along three different trajectories, demonstrating a margin of 23x faster than real-time at a frequency of 100 Hz. This approach could allow fast verifiable replanning of soft robots' motions in safety-critical physical environments, crucial for deployment in the real world.





## Choreographing the Rhythms of Observation: Dynamics for Ranged Observer Bipartite-Unipartite SpatioTemporal (ROBUST) Networks
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.07473v4
- **Authors**: ['Ted Edward Holmberg']
- **Abstrat**: Existing network analysis methods struggle to optimize observer placements in dynamic environments with limited visibility. This dissertation introduces the novel ROBUST (Ranged Observer Bipartite-Unipartite SpatioTemporal) framework, offering a significant advancement in modeling, analyzing, and optimizing observer networks within complex spatiotemporal domains. ROBUST leverages a unique bipartite-unipartite approach, distinguishing between observer and observable entities while incorporating spatial constraints and temporal dynamics.   This research extends spatiotemporal network theory by introducing novel graph-based measures, including myopic degree, spatial closeness centrality, and edge length proportion. These measures, coupled with advanced clustering techniques like Proximal Recurrence, provide insights into network structure, resilience, and the effectiveness of observer placements. The ROBUST framework demonstrates superior resource allocation and strategic responsiveness compared to conventional models. Case studies in oceanographic monitoring, urban safety networks, and multi-agent path planning showcases its practical applicability and adaptability. Results demonstrate significant improvements in coverage, response times, and overall network efficiency.   This work paves the way for future research in incorporating imperfect knowledge, refining temporal pathing methodologies, and expanding the scope of applications. By bridging theoretical advancements with practical solutions, ROBUST stands as a significant contribution to the field, promising to inform and inspire ongoing and future endeavors in network optimization and multi-agent system planning.




