# reinforcement learning
## Multi-Agent Environments for Vehicle Routing Problems
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14411v1
- **Authors**: ['Ricardo Gama', 'Daniel Fuertes', 'Carlos R. del-Blanco', 'Hugo L. Fernandes']
- **Abstrat**: Research on Reinforcement Learning (RL) approaches for discrete optimization problems has increased considerably, extending RL to an area classically dominated by Operations Research (OR). Vehicle routing problems are a good example of discrete optimization problems with high practical relevance where RL techniques have had considerable success. Despite these advances, open-source development frameworks remain scarce, hampering both the testing of algorithms and the ability to objectively compare results. This ultimately slows down progress in the field and limits the exchange of ideas between the RL and OR communities.   Here we propose a library composed of multi-agent environments that simulates classic vehicle routing problems. The library, built on PyTorch, provides a flexible modular architecture design that allows easy customization and incorporation of new routing problems. It follows the Agent Environment Cycle ("AEC") games model and has an intuitive API, enabling rapid adoption and easy integration into existing reinforcement learning frameworks.   The library allows for a straightforward use of classical OR benchmark instances in order to narrow the gap between the test beds for algorithm benchmarking used by the RL and OR communities. Additionally, we provide benchmark instance sets for each environment, as well as baseline RL models and training code.





## Marco-o1: Towards Open Reasoning Models for Open-Ended Solutions
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14405v1
- **Authors**: ['Yu Zhao', 'Huifeng Yin', 'Bo Zeng', 'Hao Wang', 'Tianqi Shi', 'Chenyang Lyu', 'Longyue Wang', 'Weihua Luo', 'Kaifu Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: Currently OpenAI o1 has sparked a surge of interest in the study of large reasoning models (LRM). Building on this momentum, Marco-o1 not only focuses on disciplines with standard answers, such as mathematics, physics, and coding --which are well-suited for reinforcement learning (RL) -- but also places greater emphasis on open-ended resolutions. We aim to address the question: "Can the o1 model effectively generalize to broader domains where clear standards are absent and rewards are challenging to quantify?" Marco-o1 is powered by Chain-of-Thought (CoT) fine-tuning, Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS), reflection mechanisms, and innovative reasoning strategies -- optimized for complex real-world problem-solving tasks.





## Quantum Policy Gradient in Reproducing Kernel Hilbert Space
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.06650v2
- **Authors**: ['David M. Bossens', 'Kishor Bharti', 'Jayne Thompson']
- **Abstrat**: Parametrised quantum circuits offer expressive and data-efficient representations for machine learning. Due to quantum states residing in a high-dimensional Hilbert space, parametrised quantum circuits have a natural interpretation in terms of kernel methods. The representation of quantum circuits in terms of quantum kernels has been studied widely in quantum supervised learning, but has been overlooked in the context of quantum reinforcement learning. This paper proposes parametric and non-parametric policy gradient and actor-critic algorithms with quantum kernel policies in quantum environments. This approach, implemented with both numerical and analytical quantum policy gradient techniques, allows exploiting the many advantages of kernel methods, including available analytic forms for the gradient of the policy and tunable expressiveness. The proposed approach is suitable for vector-valued action spaces and each of the formulations demonstrates a quadratic reduction in query complexity compared to their classical counterparts. Two actor-critic algorithms, one based on stochastic policy gradient and one based on deterministic policy gradient (comparable to the popular DDPG algorithm), demonstrate additional query complexity reductions compared to quantum policy gradient algorithms under favourable conditions.





## Model Checking for Reinforcement Learning in Autonomous Driving: One Can Do More Than You Think!
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14375v1
- **Authors**: ['Rong Gu']
- **Abstrat**: Most reinforcement learning (RL) platforms use high-level programming languages, such as OpenAI Gymnasium using Python. These frameworks provide various API and benchmarks for testing RL algorithms in different domains, such as autonomous driving (AD) and robotics. These platforms often emphasise the design of RL algorithms and the training performance but neglect the correctness of models and reward functions, which can be crucial for the successful application of RL. This paper proposes using formal methods to model AD systems and demonstrates how model checking (MC) can be used in RL for AD. Most studies combining MC and RL focus on safety, such as safety shields. However, this paper shows different facets where MC can strengthen RL. First, an MC-based model pre-analysis can reveal bugs with respect to sensor accuracy and learning step size. This step serves as a preparation of RL, which saves time if bugs exist and deepens users' understanding of the target system. Second, reward automata can benefit the design of reward functions and greatly improve learning performance especially when the learning objectives are multiple. All these findings are supported by experiments.





## Logarithmic Neyman Regret for Adaptive Estimation of the Average Treatment Effect
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14341v1
- **Authors**: ['Ojash Neopane', 'Aaditya Ramdas', 'Aarti Singh']
- **Abstrat**: Estimation of the Average Treatment Effect (ATE) is a core problem in causal inference with strong connections to Off-Policy Evaluation in Reinforcement Learning. This paper considers the problem of adaptively selecting the treatment allocation probability in order to improve estimation of the ATE. The majority of prior work on adaptive ATE estimation focus on asymptotic guarantees, and in turn overlooks important practical considerations such as the difficulty of learning the optimal treatment allocation as well as hyper-parameter selection. Existing non-asymptotic methods are limited by poor empirical performance and exponential scaling of the Neyman regret with respect to problem parameters. In order to address these gaps, we propose and analyze the Clipped Second Moment Tracking (ClipSMT) algorithm, a variant of an existing algorithm with strong asymptotic optimality guarantees, and provide finite sample bounds on its Neyman regret. Our analysis shows that ClipSMT achieves exponential improvements in Neyman regret on two fronts: improving the dependence on $T$ from $O(\sqrt{T})$ to $O(\log T)$, as well as reducing the exponential dependence on problem parameters to a polynomial dependence. Finally, we conclude with simulations which show the marked improvement of ClipSMT over existing approaches.





## Model-Based Transfer Learning for Contextual Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.04498v2
- **Authors**: ['Jung-Hoon Cho', 'Vindula Jayawardana', 'Sirui Li', 'Cathy Wu']
- **Abstrat**: Deep reinforcement learning (RL) is a powerful approach to complex decision making. However, one issue that limits its practical application is its brittleness, sometimes failing to train in the presence of small changes in the environment. Motivated by the success of zero-shot transfer-where pre-trained models perform well on related tasks-we consider the problem of selecting a good set of training tasks to maximize generalization performance across a range of tasks. Given the high cost of training, it is critical to select training tasks strategically, but not well understood how to do so. We hence introduce Model-Based Transfer Learning (MBTL), which layers on top of existing RL methods to effectively solve contextual RL problems. MBTL models the generalization performance in two parts: 1) the performance set point, modeled using Gaussian processes, and 2) performance loss (generalization gap), modeled as a linear function of contextual similarity. MBTL combines these two pieces of information within a Bayesian optimization (BO) framework to strategically select training tasks. We show theoretically that the method exhibits sublinear regret in the number of training tasks and discuss conditions to further tighten regret bounds. We experimentally validate our methods using urban traffic and standard continuous control benchmarks. The experimental results suggest that MBTL can achieve up to 50x improved sample efficiency compared with canonical independent training and multi-task training. Further experiments demonstrate the efficacy of BO and the insensitivity to the underlying RL algorithm and hyperparameters. This work lays the foundations for investigating explicit modeling of generalization, thereby enabling principled yet effective methods for contextual RL.





## ViSTa Dataset: Do vision-language models understand sequential tasks?
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13211v2
- **Authors**: ['Evžen Wybitul', 'Evan Ryan Gunter', 'Mikhail Seleznyov', 'David Lindner']
- **Abstrat**: Using vision-language models (VLMs) as reward models in reinforcement learning holds promise for reducing costs and improving safety. So far, VLM reward models have only been used for goal-oriented tasks, where the agent must reach a particular final outcome. We explore VLMs' potential to supervise tasks that cannot be scored by the final state alone. To this end, we introduce ViSTa, a dataset for evaluating Vision-based understanding of Sequential Tasks. ViSTa comprises over 4,000 videos with step-by-step descriptions in virtual home, Minecraft, and real-world environments. Its novel hierarchical structure -- basic single-step tasks composed into more and more complex sequential tasks -- allows a fine-grained understanding of how well VLMs can judge tasks with varying complexity. To illustrate this, we use ViSTa to evaluate state-of-the-art VLMs, including CLIP, ViCLIP, and GPT-4o. We find that, while they are all good at object recognition, they fail to understand sequential tasks, with only GPT-4o achieving non-trivial performance.





## Dual Attention Model with Reinforcement Learning for Classification of Histology Whole-Slide Images
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2302.09682v2
- **Authors**: ['Manahil Raza', 'Ruqayya Awan', 'Raja Muhammad Saad Bashir', 'Talha Qaiser', 'Nasir M. Rajpoot']
- **Abstrat**: Digital whole slide images (WSIs) are generally captured at microscopic resolution and encompass extensive spatial data. Directly feeding these images to deep learning models is computationally intractable due to memory constraints, while downsampling the WSIs risks incurring information loss. Alternatively, splitting the WSIs into smaller patches may result in a loss of important contextual information. In this paper, we propose a novel dual attention approach, consisting of two main components, both inspired by the visual examination process of a pathologist: The first soft attention model processes a low magnification view of the WSI to identify relevant regions of interest, followed by a custom sampling method to extract diverse and spatially distinct image tiles from the selected ROIs. The second component, the hard attention classification model further extracts a sequence of multi-resolution glimpses from each tile for classification. Since hard attention is non-differentiable, we train this component using reinforcement learning to predict the location of the glimpses. This approach allows the model to focus on essential regions instead of processing the entire tile, thereby aligning with a pathologist's way of diagnosis. The two components are trained in an end-to-end fashion using a joint loss function to demonstrate the efficacy of the model. The proposed model was evaluated on two WSI-level classification problems: Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 scoring on breast cancer histology images and prediction of Intact/Loss status of two Mismatch Repair biomarkers from colorectal cancer histology images. We show that the proposed model achieves performance better than or comparable to the state-of-the-art methods while processing less than 10% of the WSI at the highest magnification and reducing the time required to infer the WSI-level label by more than 75%.





## Explainable Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning for Extended Reality Codec Adaptation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14264v1
- **Authors**: ['Pedro Enrique Iturria-Rivera', 'Raimundas Gaigalas', 'Medhat Elsayed', 'Majid Bavand', 'Yigit Ozcan', 'Melike Erol-Kantarci']
- **Abstrat**: Extended Reality (XR) services are set to transform applications over 5th and 6th generation wireless networks, delivering immersive experiences. Concurrently, Artificial Intelligence (AI) advancements have expanded their role in wireless networks, however, trust and transparency in AI remain to be strengthened. Thus, providing explanations for AI-enabled systems can enhance trust. We introduce Value Function Factorization (VFF)-based Explainable (X) Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL) algorithms, explaining reward design in XR codec adaptation through reward decomposition. We contribute four enhancements to XMARL algorithms. Firstly, we detail architectural modifications to enable reward decomposition in VFF-based MARL algorithms: Value Decomposition Networks (VDN), Mixture of Q-Values (QMIX), and Q-Transformation (Q-TRAN). Secondly, inspired by multi-task learning, we reduce the overhead of vanilla XMARL algorithms. Thirdly, we propose a new explainability metric, Reward Difference Fluctuation Explanation (RDFX), suitable for problems with adjustable parameters. Lastly, we propose adaptive XMARL, leveraging network gradients and reward decomposition for improved action selection. Simulation results indicate that, in XR codec adaptation, the Packet Delivery Ratio reward is the primary contributor to optimal performance compared to the initial composite reward, which included delay and Data Rate Ratio components. Modifications to VFF-based XMARL algorithms, incorporating multi-headed structures and adaptive loss functions, enable the best-performing algorithm, Multi-Headed Adaptive (MHA)-QMIX, to achieve significant average gains over the Adjust Packet Size baseline up to 10.7%, 41.4%, 33.3%, and 67.9% in XR index, jitter, delay, and Packet Loss Ratio (PLR), respectively.





## Natural Language Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14251v1
- **Authors**: ['Xidong Feng', 'Ziyu Wan', 'Haotian Fu', 'Bo Liu', 'Mengyue Yang', 'Girish A. Koushik', 'Zhiyuan Hu', 'Ying Wen', 'Jun Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement Learning (RL) mathematically formulates decision-making with Markov Decision Process (MDP). With MDPs, researchers have achieved remarkable breakthroughs across various domains, including games, robotics, and language models. This paper seeks a new possibility, Natural Language Reinforcement Learning (NLRL), by extending traditional MDP to natural language-based representation space. Specifically, NLRL innovatively redefines RL principles, including task objectives, policy, value function, Bellman equation, and policy iteration, into their language counterparts. With recent advancements in large language models (LLMs), NLRL can be practically implemented to achieve RL-like policy and value improvement by either pure prompting or gradient-based training. Experiments over Maze, Breakthrough, and Tic-Tac-Toe games demonstrate the effectiveness, efficiency, and interpretability of the NLRL framework among diverse use cases. Our code will be released at https://github.com/waterhorse1/Natural-language-RL.





## The Role of Deep Learning Regularizations on Actors in Offline RL
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.07606v3
- **Authors**: ['Denis Tarasov', 'Anja Surina', 'Caglar Gulcehre']
- **Abstrat**: Deep learning regularization techniques, such as dropout, layer normalization, or weight decay, are widely adopted in the construction of modern artificial neural networks, often resulting in more robust training processes and improved generalization capabilities. However, in the domain of Reinforcement Learning (RL), the application of these techniques has been limited, usually applied to value function estimators (Hiraoka et al., 2021; Smith et al., 2022), and may result in detrimental effects. This issue is even more pronounced in offline RL settings, which bear greater similarity to supervised learning but have received less attention. Recent work in continuous offline RL (Park et al., 2024) has demonstrated that while we can build sufficiently powerful critic networks, the generalization of actor networks remains a bottleneck. In this study, we empirically show that applying standard regularization techniques to actor networks in offline RL actor-critic algorithms yields improvements of 6% on average across two algorithms and three different continuous D4RL domains.





## Umbrella Reinforcement Learning -- computationally efficient tool for hard non-linear problems
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14117v1
- **Authors**: ['Egor E. Nuzhin', 'Nikolai V. Brilliantov']
- **Abstrat**: We report a novel, computationally efficient approach for solving hard nonlinear problems of reinforcement learning (RL). Here we combine umbrella sampling, from computational physics/chemistry, with optimal control methods. The approach is realized on the basis of neural networks, with the use of policy gradient. It outperforms, by computational efficiency and implementation universality, all available state-of-the-art algorithms, in application to hard RL problems with sparse reward, state traps and lack of terminal states. The proposed approach uses an ensemble of simultaneously acting agents, with a modified reward which includes the ensemble entropy, yielding an optimal exploration-exploitation balance.





## Exploration by Running Away from the Past
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14085v1
- **Authors**: ['Paul-Antoine Le Tolguenec', 'Yann Besse', 'Florent Teichteil-Koenigsbuch', 'Dennis G. Wilson', 'Emmanuel Rachelson']
- **Abstrat**: The ability to explore efficiently and effectively is a central challenge of reinforcement learning. In this work, we consider exploration through the lens of information theory. Specifically, we cast exploration as a problem of maximizing the Shannon entropy of the state occupation measure. This is done by maximizing a sequence of divergences between distributions representing an agent's past behavior and its current behavior. Intuitively, this encourages the agent to explore new behaviors that are distinct from past behaviors. Hence, we call our method RAMP, for ``$\textbf{R}$unning $\textbf{A}$way fro$\textbf{m}$ the $\textbf{P}$ast.'' A fundamental question of this method is the quantification of the distribution change over time. We consider both the Kullback-Leibler divergence and the Wasserstein distance to quantify divergence between successive state occupation measures, and explain why the former might lead to undesirable exploratory behaviors in some tasks. We demonstrate that by encouraging the agent to explore by actively distancing itself from past experiences, it can effectively explore mazes and a wide range of behaviors on robotic manipulation and locomotion tasks.





## Dynamic Trajectory and Power Control in Ultra-Dense UAV Networks: A Mean-Field Reinforcement Learning Approach
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14052v1
- **Authors**: ['Fei Song', 'Zhe Wang', 'Jun Li', 'Long Shi', 'Wen Chen', 'Shi Jin']
- **Abstrat**: In ultra-dense unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) networks, it is challenging to coordinate the resource allocation and interference management among large-scale UAVs, for providing flexible and efficient service coverage to the ground users (GUs). In this paper, we propose a learning-based resource allocation scheme in an ultra-dense UAV communication network, where the GUs' service demands are time-varying with unknown distributions. We formulate the non-cooperative game among multiple co-channel UAVs as a stochastic game, where each UAV jointly optimizes its trajectory, user association, and downlink power control to maximize the expectation of its locally cumulative energy efficiency under the interference and energy constraints. To cope with the scalability issue in a large-scale network, we further formulate the problem as a mean-field game (MFG), which simplifies the interactions among the UAVs into a two-player game between a representative UAV and a mean-field. We prove the existence and uniqueness of the equilibrium for the MFG, and propose a model-free mean-field reinforcement learning algorithm named maximum entropy mean-field deep Q network (ME-MFDQN) to solve the mean-field equilibrium in both fully and partially observable scenarios. The simulation results reveal that the proposed algorithm improves the energy efficiency compared with the benchmark algorithms. Moreover, the performance can be further enhanced if the GUs' service demands exhibit higher temporal correlation or if the UAVs have wider observation capabilities over their nearby GUs.





## Time-Scale Separation in Q-Learning: Extending TD($\triangle$) for Action-Value Function Decomposition
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14019v1
- **Authors**: ['Mahammad Humayoo']
- **Abstrat**: Q-Learning is a fundamental off-policy reinforcement learning (RL) algorithm that has the objective of approximating action-value functions in order to learn optimal policies. Nonetheless, it has difficulties in reconciling bias with variance, particularly in the context of long-term rewards. This paper introduces Q($\Delta$)-Learning, an extension of TD($\Delta$) for the Q-Learning framework. TD($\Delta$) facilitates efficient learning over several time scales by breaking the Q($\Delta$)-function into distinct discount factors. This approach offers improved learning stability and scalability, especially for long-term tasks where discounting bias may impede convergence. Our methodology guarantees that each element of the Q($\Delta$)-function is acquired individually, facilitating expedited convergence on shorter time scales and enhancing the learning of extended time scales. We demonstrate through theoretical analysis and practical evaluations on standard benchmarks like Atari that Q($\Delta$)-Learning surpasses conventional Q-Learning and TD learning methods in both tabular and deep RL environments.





## Near-Field Spot Beamfocusing: A Correlation-Aware Transfer Learning Approach
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.19347v2
- **Authors**: ['Mohammad Amir Fallah', 'Mehdi Monemi', 'Mehdi Rasti', 'Matti Latva-Aho']
- **Abstrat**: 3D spot beamfocusing (SBF), in contrast to conventional angular-domain beamforming, concentrates radiating power within very small volume in both radial and angular domains in the near-field zone. Recently the implementation of channel-state-information (CSI)-independent machine learning (ML)-based approaches have been developed for effective SBF using extremely-largescale-programable-metasurface (ELPMs). These methods involve dividing the ELPMs into subarrays and independently training them with Deep Reinforcement Learning to jointly focus the beam at the Desired Focal Point (DFP). This paper explores near-field SBF using ELPMs, addressing challenges associated with lengthy training times resulting from independent training of subarrays. To achieve a faster CSIindependent solution, inspired by the correlation between the beamfocusing matrices of the subarrays, we leverage transfer learning techniques. First, we introduce a novel similarity criterion based on the Phase Distribution Image of subarray apertures. Then we devise a subarray policy propagation scheme that transfers the knowledge from trained to untrained subarrays. We further enhance learning by introducing Quasi-Liquid-Layers as a revised version of the adaptive policy reuse technique. We show through simulations that the proposed scheme improves the training speed about 5 times. Furthermore, for dynamic DFP management, we devised a DFP policy blending process, which augments the convergence rate up to 8-fold.





## Movable Antenna-Equipped UAV for Data Collection in Backscatter Sensor Networks: A Deep Reinforcement Learning-based Approach
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13970v1
- **Authors**: ['Yu Bai', 'Boxuan Xie', 'Ruifan Zhu', 'Zheng Chang', 'Riku Jantti']
- **Abstrat**: Backscatter communication (BC) becomes a promising energy-efficient solution for future wireless sensor networks (WSNs). Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) enable flexible data collection from remote backscatter devices (BDs), yet conventional UAVs rely on omni-directional fixed-position antennas (FPAs), limiting channel gain and prolonging data collection time. To address this issue, we consider equipping a UAV with a directional movable antenna (MA) with high directivity and flexibility. The MA enhances channel gain by precisely aiming its main lobe at each BD, focusing transmission power for efficient communication. Our goal is to minimize the total data collection time by jointly optimizing the UAV's trajectory and the MA's orientation. We develop a deep reinforcement learning (DRL)-based strategy using the azimuth angle and distance between the UAV and each BD to simplify the agent's observation space. To ensure stability during training, we adopt Soft Actor-Critic (SAC) algorithm that balances exploration with reward maximization for efficient and reliable learning. Simulation results demonstrate that our proposed MA-equipped UAV with SAC outperforms both FPA-equipped UAVs and other RL methods, achieving significant reductions in both data collection time and energy consumption.





## The Digital Transformation in Health: How AI Can Improve the Performance of Health Systems
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.16098v2
- **Authors**: ['África Periáñez', 'Ana Fernández del Río', 'Ivan Nazarov', 'Enric Jané', 'Moiz Hassan', 'Aditya Rastogi', 'Dexian Tang']
- **Abstrat**: Mobile health has the potential to revolutionize health care delivery and patient engagement. In this work, we discuss how integrating Artificial Intelligence into digital health applications-focused on supply chain, patient management, and capacity building, among other use cases-can improve the health system and public health performance. We present an Artificial Intelligence and Reinforcement Learning platform that allows the delivery of adaptive interventions whose impact can be optimized through experimentation and real-time monitoring. The system can integrate multiple data sources and digital health applications. The flexibility of this platform to connect to various mobile health applications and digital devices and send personalized recommendations based on past data and predictions can significantly improve the impact of digital tools on health system outcomes. The potential for resource-poor settings, where the impact of this approach on health outcomes could be more decisive, is discussed specifically. This framework is, however, similarly applicable to improving efficiency in health systems where scarcity is not an issue.





## Learning thin deformable object manipulation with a multi-sensory integrated soft hand
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13952v1
- **Authors**: ['Chao Zhao', 'Chunli Jiang', 'Lifan Luo', 'Shuai Yuan', 'Qifeng Chen', 'Hongyu Yu']
- **Abstrat**: Robotic manipulation has made significant advancements, with systems demonstrating high precision and repeatability. However, this remarkable precision often fails to translate into efficient manipulation of thin deformable objects. Current robotic systems lack imprecise dexterity, the ability to perform dexterous manipulation through robust and adaptive behaviors that do not rely on precise control. This paper explores the singulation and grasping of thin, deformable objects. Here, we propose a novel solution that incorporates passive compliance, touch, and proprioception into thin, deformable object manipulation. Our system employs a soft, underactuated hand that provides passive compliance, facilitating adaptive and gentle interactions to dexterously manipulate deformable objects without requiring precise control. The tactile and force/torque sensors equipped on the hand, along with a depth camera, gather sensory data required for manipulation via the proposed slip module. The manipulation policies are learned directly from raw sensory data via model-free reinforcement learning, bypassing explicit environmental and object modeling. We implement a hierarchical double-loop learning process to enhance learning efficiency by decoupling the action space. Our method was deployed on real-world robots and trained in a self-supervised manner. The resulting policy was tested on a variety of challenging tasks that were beyond the capabilities of prior studies, ranging from displaying suit fabric like a salesperson to turning pages of sheet music for violinists.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Transformer-based Heuristic for Advanced Air Mobility Planning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14427v1
- **Authors**: ['Jun Xiang', 'Jun Chen']
- **Abstrat**: Safety is extremely important for urban flights of autonomous Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs). Risk-aware path planning is one of the most effective methods to guarantee the safety of UAVs. This type of planning can be represented as a Constrained Shortest Path (CSP) problem, which seeks to find the shortest route that meets a predefined safety constraint. Solving CSP problems is NP-hard, presenting significant computational challenges. Although traditional methods can accurately solve CSP problems, they tend to be very slow. Previously, we introduced an additional safety dimension to the traditional A* algorithm, known as ASD A*, to effectively handle Constrained Shortest Path (CSP) problems. Then, we developed a custom learning-based heuristic using transformer-based neural networks, which significantly reduced computational load and enhanced the performance of the ASD A* algorithm. In this paper, we expand our dataset to include more risk maps and tasks, improve the proposed model, and increase its performance. We also introduce a new heuristic strategy and a novel neural network, which enhance the overall effectiveness of our approach.





## Accelerating Gaussian Variational Inference for Motion Planning Under Uncertainty
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.03416v2
- **Authors**: ['Zinuo Chang', 'Hongzhe Yu', 'Patricio Vela', 'Yongxin Chen']
- **Abstrat**: This work addresses motion planning under uncertainty as a stochastic optimal control problem. The path distribution induced by the optimal controller corresponds to a posterior path distribution with a known form. To approximate this posterior, we frame an optimization problem in the space of Gaussian distributions, which aligns with the Gaussian Variational Inference Motion Planning (GVIMP) paradigm introduced in \cite{yu2023gaussian}. In this framework, the computation bottleneck lies in evaluating the expectation of collision costs over a dense discretized trajectory and computing the marginal covariances. This work exploits the sparse motion planning factor graph, which allows for parallel computing collision costs and Gaussian Belief Propagation (GBP) marginal covariance computation, to introduce a computationally efficient approach to solving GVIMP. We term the novel paradigm as the Parallel Gaussian Variational Inference Motion Planning (P-GVIMP). We validate the proposed framework on various robotic systems, demonstrating significant speed acceleration achieved by leveraging Graphics Processing Units (GPUs) for parallel computation. An open-sourced implementation is presented at https://github.com/hzyu17/VIMP.





## Spatiotemporal Decoupling for Efficient Vision-Based Occupancy Forecasting
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14169v1
- **Authors**: ['Jingyi Xu', 'Xieyuanli Chen', 'Junyi Ma', 'Jiawei Huang', 'Jintao Xu', 'Yue Wang', 'Ling Pei']
- **Abstrat**: The task of occupancy forecasting (OCF) involves utilizing past and present perception data to predict future occupancy states of autonomous vehicle surrounding environments, which is critical for downstream tasks such as obstacle avoidance and path planning. Existing 3D OCF approaches struggle to predict plausible spatial details for movable objects and suffer from slow inference speeds due to neglecting the bias and uneven distribution of changing occupancy states in both space and time. In this paper, we propose a novel spatiotemporal decoupling vision-based paradigm to explicitly tackle the bias and achieve both effective and efficient 3D OCF. To tackle spatial bias in empty areas, we introduce a novel spatial representation that decouples the conventional dense 3D format into 2D bird's-eye view (BEV) occupancy with corresponding height values, enabling 3D OCF derived only from 2D predictions thus enhancing efficiency. To reduce temporal bias on static voxels, we design temporal decoupling to improve end-to-end OCF by temporally associating instances via predicted flows. We develop an efficient multi-head network EfficientOCF to achieve 3D OCF with our devised spatiotemporally decoupled representation. A new metric, conditional IoU (C-IoU), is also introduced to provide a robust 3D OCF performance assessment, especially in datasets with missing or incomplete annotations. The experimental results demonstrate that EfficientOCF surpasses existing baseline methods on accuracy and efficiency, achieving state-of-the-art performance with a fast inference time of 82.33ms with a single GPU. Our code will be released as open source.





## Positioning of a Next Generation Mobile Cell to Maximise Aggregate Network Capacity
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.06098v2
- **Authors**: ['Paulo Furtado Correia', 'Andre Coelho', 'Manuel Ricardo']
- **Abstrat**: In wireless communications, the need to cover operation areas, such as seaports, is at the forefront of discussion, especially regarding network capacity provisioning. Radio network planning typically involves determining the number of fixed cells, considering link budgets and deploying them geometrically centered across targeted areas. This paper proposes a solution to determine the optimal position for a mobile cell, considering 3GPP path loss models. The optimal position for the mobile cell maximises the aggregate network capacity offered to a set of User Equipments (UEs), with gains up to 187% compared to the positioning of the mobile cell at the UEs geometrical center. The proposed solution can be used by network planners and integrated into network optimisation tools. This has the potential to reduce costs associated with the Radio Access Network (RAN) planning by enhancing flexibility for on-demand deployments.




