# reinforcement learning
## Design And Optimization Of Multi-rendezvous Manoeuvres Based On Reinforcement Learning And Convex Optimization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11778v1
- **Authors**: ['Antonio López Rivera', 'Lucrezia Marcovaldi', 'Jesús Ramírez', 'Alex Cuenca', 'David Bermejo']
- **Abstrat**: Optimizing space vehicle routing is crucial for critical applications such as on-orbit servicing, constellation deployment, and space debris de-orbiting. Multi-target Rendezvous presents a significant challenge in this domain. This problem involves determining the optimal sequence in which to visit a set of targets, and the corresponding optimal trajectories: this results in a demanding NP-hard problem. We introduce a framework for the design and refinement of multi-rendezvous trajectories based on heuristic combinatorial optimization and Sequential Convex Programming. Our framework is both highly modular and capable of leveraging candidate solutions obtained with advanced approaches and handcrafted heuristics. We demonstrate this flexibility by integrating an Attention-based routing policy trained with Reinforcement Learning to improve the performance of the combinatorial optimization process. We show that Reinforcement Learning approaches for combinatorial optimization can be effectively applied to spacecraft routing problems. We apply the proposed framework to the UARX Space OSSIE mission: we are able to thoroughly explore the mission design space, finding optimal tours and trajectories for a wide variety of mission scenarios.





## High-Speed Cornering Control and Real-Vehicle Deployment for Autonomous Electric Vehicles
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11762v1
- **Authors**: ['Shiyue Zhao', 'Junzhi Zhang', 'Neda Masoud', 'Yuhong Jiang', 'Heye Huang', 'Tao Liu']
- **Abstrat**: Executing drift maneuvers during high-speed cornering presents significant challenges for autonomous vehicles, yet offers the potential to minimize turning time and enhance driving dynamics. While reinforcement learning (RL) has shown promising results in simulated environments, discrepancies between simulations and real-world conditions have limited its practical deployment. This study introduces an innovative control framework that integrates trajectory optimization with drift maneuvers, aiming to improve the algorithm's adaptability for real-vehicle implementation. We leveraged Bezier-based pre-trajectory optimization to enhance rewards and optimize the controller through Twin Delayed Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (TD3) in a simulated environment. For real-world deployment, we implement a hybrid RL-MPC fusion mechanism, , where TD3-derived maneuvers serve as primary inputs for a Model Predictive Controller (MPC). This integration enables precise real-time tracking of the optimal trajectory, with MPC providing corrective inputs to bridge the gap between simulation and reality. The efficacy of this method is validated through real-vehicle tests on consumer-grade electric vehicles, focusing on drift U-turns and drift right-angle turns. The control outcomes of these real-vehicle tests are thoroughly documented in the paper, supported by supplementary video evidence (https://youtu.be/5wp67FcpfL8). Notably, this study is the first to deploy and apply an RL-based transient drift cornering algorithm on consumer-grade electric vehicles.





## Mapping out the Space of Human Feedback for Reinforcement Learning: A Conceptual Framework
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11761v1
- **Authors**: ['Yannick Metz', 'David Lindner', 'Raphaël Baur', 'Mennatallah El-Assady']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement Learning from Human feedback (RLHF) has become a powerful tool to fine-tune or train agentic machine learning models. Similar to how humans interact in social contexts, we can use many types of feedback to communicate our preferences, intentions, and knowledge to an RL agent. However, applications of human feedback in RL are often limited in scope and disregard human factors. In this work, we bridge the gap between machine learning and human-computer interaction efforts by developing a shared understanding of human feedback in interactive learning scenarios. We first introduce a taxonomy of feedback types for reward-based learning from human feedback based on nine key dimensions. Our taxonomy allows for unifying human-centered, interface-centered, and model-centered aspects. In addition, we identify seven quality metrics of human feedback influencing both the human ability to express feedback and the agent's ability to learn from the feedback. Based on the feedback taxonomy and quality criteria, we derive requirements and design choices for systems learning from human feedback. We relate these requirements and design choices to existing work in interactive machine learning. In the process, we identify gaps in existing work and future research opportunities. We call for interdisciplinary collaboration to harness the full potential of reinforcement learning with data-driven co-adaptive modeling and varied interaction mechanics.





## Aligning Few-Step Diffusion Models with Dense Reward Difference Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11727v1
- **Authors**: ['Ziyi Zhang', 'Li Shen', 'Sen Zhang', 'Deheng Ye', 'Yong Luo', 'Miaojing Shi', 'Bo Du', 'Dacheng Tao']
- **Abstrat**: Aligning diffusion models with downstream objectives is essential for their practical applications. However, standard alignment methods often struggle with step generalization when directly applied to few-step diffusion models, leading to inconsistent performance across different denoising step scenarios. To address this, we introduce Stepwise Diffusion Policy Optimization (SDPO), a novel alignment method tailored for few-step diffusion models. Unlike prior approaches that rely on a single sparse reward from only the final step of each denoising trajectory for trajectory-level optimization, SDPO incorporates dense reward feedback at every intermediate step. By learning the differences in dense rewards between paired samples, SDPO facilitates stepwise optimization of few-step diffusion models, ensuring consistent alignment across all denoising steps. To promote stable and efficient training, SDPO introduces an online reinforcement learning framework featuring several novel strategies designed to effectively exploit the stepwise granularity of dense rewards. Experimental results demonstrate that SDPO consistently outperforms prior methods in reward-based alignment across diverse step configurations, underscoring its robust step generalization capabilities. Code is avaliable at https://github.com/ZiyiZhang27/sdpo.





## Bitcoin Under Volatile Block Rewards: How Mempool Statistics Can Influence Bitcoin Mining
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11702v1
- **Authors**: ['Roozbeh Sarenche', 'Alireza Aghabagherloo', 'Svetla Nikova', 'Bart Preneel']
- **Abstrat**: As Bitcoin experiences more halving events, the protocol reward converges to zero, making transaction fees the primary source of miner rewards. This shift in Bitcoin's incentivization mechanism, which introduces volatility into block rewards, could lead to the emergence of new security threats or intensify existing ones. Previous security analyses of Bitcoin have either considered a fixed block reward model or a highly simplified volatile model, overlooking the complexities of Bitcoin's mempool behavior.   In this paper, we present a reinforcement learning-based tool designed to analyze mining strategies under a more realistic volatile model. Our tool uses the Asynchronous Advantage Actor-Critic (A3C) algorithm to derive near-optimal mining strategies while interacting with an environment that models the complexity of the Bitcoin mempool. This tool enables the analysis of adversarial mining strategies, such as selfish mining and undercutting, both before and after difficulty adjustments, providing insights into the effects of mining attacks in both the short and long term.   Our analysis reveals that Bitcoin users' trend of offering higher fees to speed up the inclusion of their transactions in the chain can incentivize payoff-maximizing miners to deviate from the honest strategy. In the fixed reward model, a disincentive for the selfish mining attack is the initial loss period of at least two weeks, during which the attack is not profitable. However, our analysis shows that once the protocol reward diminishes to zero in the future, or even currently on days when transaction fees are comparable to the protocol reward, mining pools might be incentivized to abandon honest mining to gain an immediate profit.





## Robust Reinforcement Learning under Diffusion Models for Data with Jumps
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11697v1
- **Authors**: ['Chenyang Jiang', 'Donggyu Kim', 'Alejandra Quintos', 'Yazhen Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement Learning (RL) has proven effective in solving complex decision-making tasks across various domains, but challenges remain in continuous-time settings, particularly when state dynamics are governed by stochastic differential equations (SDEs) with jump components. In this paper, we address this challenge by introducing the Mean-Square Bipower Variation Error (MSBVE) algorithm, which enhances robustness and convergence in scenarios involving significant stochastic noise and jumps. We first revisit the Mean-Square TD Error (MSTDE) algorithm, commonly used in continuous-time RL, and highlight its limitations in handling jumps in state dynamics. The proposed MSBVE algorithm minimizes the mean-square quadratic variation error, offering improved performance over MSTDE in environments characterized by SDEs with jumps. Simulations and formal proofs demonstrate that the MSBVE algorithm reliably estimates the value function in complex settings, surpassing MSTDE's performance when faced with jump processes. These findings underscore the importance of alternative error metrics to improve the resilience and effectiveness of RL algorithms in continuous-time frameworks.





## Coevolution of Opinion Dynamics and Recommendation System: Modeling Analysis and Reinforcement Learning Based Manipulation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11687v1
- **Authors**: ['Yuhong Chen', 'Xiaobing Dai', 'Martin Buss', 'Fangzhou Liu']
- **Abstrat**: In this work, we develop an analytical framework that integrates opinion dynamics with a recommendation system. By incorporating elements such as collaborative filtering, we provide a precise characterization of how recommendation systems shape interpersonal interactions and influence opinion formation. Moreover, the property of the coevolution of both opinion dynamics and recommendation systems is also shown. Specifically, the convergence of this coevolutionary system is theoretically proved, and the mechanisms behind filter bubble formation are elucidated. Our analysis of the maximum number of opinion clusters shows how recommendation system parameters affect opinion grouping and polarization. Additionally, we incorporate the influence of propagators into our model and propose a reinforcement learning-based solution. The analysis and the propagation solution are demonstrated in simulation using the Yelp data set.





## Hierarchical Structure Enhances the Convergence and Generalizability of Linear Molecular Representation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.02164v4
- **Authors**: ['Juan-Ni Wu', 'Tong Wang', 'Li-Juan Tang', 'Hai-Long Wu', 'Ru-Qin Yu']
- **Abstrat**: Language models demonstrate fundamental abilities in syntax, semantics, and reasoning, though their performance often depends significantly on the inputs they process. This study introduces TSIS (Simplified TSID) and its variants:TSISD (TSIS with Depth-First Search), TSISO (TSIS in Order), and TSISR (TSIS in Random), as integral components of the t-SMILES framework. These additions complete the framework's design, providing diverse approaches to molecular representation. Through comprehensive analysis and experiments employing deep generative models, including GPT, diffusion models, and reinforcement learning, the findings reveal that the hierarchical structure of t-SMILES is more straightforward to parse than initially anticipated. Furthermore, t-SMILES consistently outperforms other linear representations such as SMILES, SELFIES, and SAFE, demonstrating superior convergence speed and enhanced generalization capabilities.





## Read to Play (R2-Play): Decision Transformer with Multimodal Game Instruction
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04154v7
- **Authors**: ['Yonggang Jin', 'Ge Zhang', 'Hao Zhao', 'Tianyu Zheng', 'Jarvi Guo', 'Liuyu Xiang', 'Shawn Yue', 'Stephen W. Huang', 'Zhaofeng He', 'Jie Fu']
- **Abstrat**: Developing a generalist agent is a longstanding objective in artificial intelligence. Previous efforts utilizing extensive offline datasets from various tasks demonstrate remarkable performance in multitasking scenarios within Reinforcement Learning. However, these works encounter challenges in extending their capabilities to new tasks. Recent approaches integrate textual guidance or visual trajectory into decision networks to provide task-specific contextual cues, representing a promising direction. However, it is observed that relying solely on textual guidance or visual trajectory is insufficient for accurately conveying the contextual information of tasks. This paper explores enhanced forms of task guidance for agents, enabling them to comprehend gameplay instructions, thereby facilitating a "read-to-play" capability. Drawing inspiration from the success of multimodal instruction tuning in visual tasks, we treat the visual-based RL task as a long-horizon vision task and construct a set of multimodal game instructions to incorporate instruction tuning into a decision transformer. Experimental results demonstrate that incorporating multimodal game instructions significantly enhances the decision transformer's multitasking and generalization capabilities.





## No-regret Exploration in Shuffle Private Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11647v1
- **Authors**: ['Shaojie Bai', 'Mohammad Sadegh Talebi', 'Chengcheng Zhao', 'Peng Cheng', 'Jiming Chen']
- **Abstrat**: Differential privacy (DP) has recently been introduced into episodic reinforcement learning (RL) to formally address user privacy concerns in personalized services. Previous work mainly focuses on two trust models of DP: the central model, where a central agent is responsible for protecting users' sensitive data, and the (stronger) local model, where the protection occurs directly on the user side. However, they either require a trusted central agent or incur a significantly higher privacy cost, making it unsuitable for many scenarios. This work introduces a trust model stronger than the central model but with a lower privacy cost than the local model, leveraging the emerging \emph{shuffle} model of privacy. We present the first generic algorithm for episodic RL under the shuffle model, where a trusted shuffler randomly permutes a batch of users' data before sending it to the central agent. We then instantiate the algorithm using our proposed shuffle Privatizer, relying on a shuffle private binary summation mechanism. Our analysis shows that the algorithm achieves a near-optimal regret bound comparable to that of the centralized model and significantly outperforms the local model in terms of privacy cost.





## Signaling and Social Learning in Swarms of Robots
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11616v1
- **Authors**: ['Leo Cazenille', 'Maxime Toquebiau', 'Nicolas Lobato-Dauzier', 'Alessia Loi', 'Loona Macabre', 'Nathanael Aubert-Kato', 'Anthony Genot', 'Nicolas Bredeche']
- **Abstrat**: This paper investigates the role of communication in improving coordination within robot swarms, focusing on a paradigm where learning and execution occur simultaneously in a decentralized manner. We highlight the role communication can play in addressing the credit assignment problem (individual contribution to the overall performance), and how it can be influenced by it. We propose a taxonomy of existing and future works on communication, focusing on information selection and physical abstraction as principal axes for classification: from low-level lossless compression with raw signal extraction and processing to high-level lossy compression with structured communication models. The paper reviews current research from evolutionary robotics, multi-agent (deep) reinforcement learning, language models, and biophysics models to outline the challenges and opportunities of communication in a collective of robots that continuously learn from one another through local message exchanges, illustrating a form of social learning.





## Specification Overfitting in Artificial Intelligence
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.08425v2
- **Authors**: ['Benjamin Roth', 'Pedro Henrique Luz de Araujo', 'Yuxi Xia', 'Saskia Kaltenbrunner', 'Christoph Korab']
- **Abstrat**: Machine learning (ML) and artificial intelligence (AI) approaches are often criticized for their inherent bias and for their lack of control, accountability, and transparency. Consequently, regulatory bodies struggle with containing this technology's potential negative side effects. High-level requirements such as fairness and robustness need to be formalized into concrete specification metrics, imperfect proxies that capture isolated aspects of the underlying requirements. Given possible trade-offs between different metrics and their vulnerability to over-optimization, integrating specification metrics in system development processes is not trivial. This paper defines specification overfitting, a scenario where systems focus excessively on specified metrics to the detriment of high-level requirements and task performance. We present an extensive literature survey to categorize how researchers propose, measure, and optimize specification metrics in several AI fields (e.g., natural language processing, computer vision, reinforcement learning). Using a keyword-based search on papers from major AI conferences and journals between 2018 and mid-2023, we identify and analyze 74 papers that propose or optimize specification metrics. We find that although most papers implicitly address specification overfitting (e.g., by reporting more than one specification metric), they rarely discuss which role specification metrics should play in system development or explicitly define the scope and assumptions behind metric formulations.





## RP1M: A Large-Scale Motion Dataset for Piano Playing with Bi-Manual Dexterous Robot Hands
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.11048v2
- **Authors**: ['Yi Zhao', 'Le Chen', 'Jan Schneider', 'Quankai Gao', 'Juho Kannala', 'Bernhard Schölkopf', 'Joni Pajarinen', 'Dieter Büchler']
- **Abstrat**: It has been a long-standing research goal to endow robot hands with human-level dexterity. Bi-manual robot piano playing constitutes a task that combines challenges from dynamic tasks, such as generating fast while precise motions, with slower but contact-rich manipulation problems. Although reinforcement learning based approaches have shown promising results in single-task performance, these methods struggle in a multi-song setting. Our work aims to close this gap and, thereby, enable imitation learning approaches for robot piano playing at scale. To this end, we introduce the Robot Piano 1 Million (RP1M) dataset, containing bi-manual robot piano playing motion data of more than one million trajectories. We formulate finger placements as an optimal transport problem, thus, enabling automatic annotation of vast amounts of unlabeled songs. Benchmarking existing imitation learning approaches shows that such approaches reach state-of-the-art robot piano playing performance by leveraging RP1M.





## PEAC: Unsupervised Pre-training for Cross-Embodiment Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.14073v2
- **Authors**: ['Chengyang Ying', 'Zhongkai Hao', 'Xinning Zhou', 'Xuezhou Xu', 'Hang Su', 'Xingxing Zhang', 'Jun Zhu']
- **Abstrat**: Designing generalizable agents capable of adapting to diverse embodiments has achieved significant attention in Reinforcement Learning (RL), which is critical for deploying RL agents in various real-world applications. Previous Cross-Embodiment RL approaches have focused on transferring knowledge across embodiments within specific tasks. These methods often result in knowledge tightly coupled with those tasks and fail to adequately capture the distinct characteristics of different embodiments. To address this limitation, we introduce the notion of Cross-Embodiment Unsupervised RL (CEURL), which leverages unsupervised learning to enable agents to acquire embodiment-aware and task-agnostic knowledge through online interactions within reward-free environments. We formulate CEURL as a novel Controlled Embodiment Markov Decision Process (CE-MDP) and systematically analyze CEURL's pre-training objectives under CE-MDP. Based on these analyses, we develop a novel algorithm Pre-trained Embodiment-Aware Control (PEAC) for handling CEURL, incorporating an intrinsic reward function specifically designed for cross-embodiment pre-training. PEAC not only provides an intuitive optimization strategy for cross-embodiment pre-training but also can integrate flexibly with existing unsupervised RL methods, facilitating cross-embodiment exploration and skill discovery. Extensive experiments in both simulated (e.g., DMC and Robosuite) and real-world environments (e.g., legged locomotion) demonstrate that PEAC significantly improves adaptation performance and cross-embodiment generalization, demonstrating its effectiveness in overcoming the unique challenges of CEURL. The project page and code are in https://yingchengyang.github.io/ceurl.





## A Pre-Trained Graph-Based Model for Adaptive Sequencing of Educational Documents
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11520v1
- **Authors**: ['Jean Vassoyan', 'Anan Schütt', 'Jill-Jênn Vie', 'Arun-Balajiee Lekshmi-Narayanan', 'Elisabeth André', 'Nicolas Vayatis']
- **Abstrat**: Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) have greatly contributed to making education more accessible.However, many MOOCs maintain a rigid, one-size-fits-all structure that fails to address the diverse needs and backgrounds of individual learners.Learning path personalization aims to address this limitation, by tailoring sequences of educational content to optimize individual student learning outcomes.Existing approaches, however, often require either massive student interaction data or extensive expert annotation, limiting their broad application.In this study, we introduce a novel data-efficient framework for learning path personalization that operates without expert annotation.Our method employs a flexible recommender system pre-trained with reinforcement learning on a dataset of raw course materials.Through experiments on semi-synthetic data, we show that this pre-training stage substantially improves data-efficiency in a range of adaptive learning scenarios featuring new educational materials.This opens up new perspectives for the design of foundation models for adaptive learning.





## Structure learning with Temporal Gaussian Mixture for model-based Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11511v1
- **Authors**: ['Théophile Champion', 'Marek Grześ', 'Howard Bowman']
- **Abstrat**: Model-based reinforcement learning refers to a set of approaches capable of sample-efficient decision making, which create an explicit model of the environment. This model can subsequently be used for learning optimal policies. In this paper, we propose a temporal Gaussian Mixture Model composed of a perception model and a transition model. The perception model extracts discrete (latent) states from continuous observations using a variational Gaussian mixture likelihood. Importantly, our model constantly monitors the collected data searching for new Gaussian components, i.e., the perception model performs a form of structure learning (Smith et al., 2020; Friston et al., 2018; Neacsu et al., 2022) as it learns the number of Gaussian components in the mixture. Additionally, the transition model learns the temporal transition between consecutive time steps by taking advantage of the Dirichlet-categorical conjugacy. Both the perception and transition models are able to forget part of the data points, while integrating the information they provide within the prior, which ensure fast variational inference. Finally, decision making is performed with a variant of Q-learning which is able to learn Q-values from beliefs over states. Empirically, we have demonstrated the model's ability to learn the structure of several mazes: the model discovered the number of states and the transition probabilities between these states. Moreover, using its learned Q-values, the agent was able to successfully navigate from the starting position to the maze's exit.





## Upside-Down Reinforcement Learning for More Interpretable Optimal Control
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11457v1
- **Authors**: ['Juan Cardenas-Cartagena', 'Massimiliano Falzari', 'Marco Zullich', 'Matthia Sabatelli']
- **Abstrat**: Model-Free Reinforcement Learning (RL) algorithms either learn how to map states to expected rewards or search for policies that can maximize a certain performance function. Model-Based algorithms instead, aim to learn an approximation of the underlying model of the RL environment and then use it in combination with planning algorithms. Upside-Down Reinforcement Learning (UDRL) is a novel learning paradigm that aims to learn how to predict actions from states and desired commands. This task is formulated as a Supervised Learning problem and has successfully been tackled by Neural Networks (NNs). In this paper, we investigate whether function approximation algorithms other than NNs can also be used within a UDRL framework. Our experiments, performed over several popular optimal control benchmarks, show that tree-based methods like Random Forests and Extremely Randomized Trees can perform just as well as NNs with the significant benefit of resulting in policies that are inherently more interpretable than NNs, therefore paving the way for more transparent, safe, and robust RL.





# TD3
## High-Speed Cornering Control and Real-Vehicle Deployment for Autonomous Electric Vehicles
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11762v1
- **Authors**: ['Shiyue Zhao', 'Junzhi Zhang', 'Neda Masoud', 'Yuhong Jiang', 'Heye Huang', 'Tao Liu']
- **Abstrat**: Executing drift maneuvers during high-speed cornering presents significant challenges for autonomous vehicles, yet offers the potential to minimize turning time and enhance driving dynamics. While reinforcement learning (RL) has shown promising results in simulated environments, discrepancies between simulations and real-world conditions have limited its practical deployment. This study introduces an innovative control framework that integrates trajectory optimization with drift maneuvers, aiming to improve the algorithm's adaptability for real-vehicle implementation. We leveraged Bezier-based pre-trajectory optimization to enhance rewards and optimize the controller through Twin Delayed Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (TD3) in a simulated environment. For real-world deployment, we implement a hybrid RL-MPC fusion mechanism, , where TD3-derived maneuvers serve as primary inputs for a Model Predictive Controller (MPC). This integration enables precise real-time tracking of the optimal trajectory, with MPC providing corrective inputs to bridge the gap between simulation and reality. The efficacy of this method is validated through real-vehicle tests on consumer-grade electric vehicles, focusing on drift U-turns and drift right-angle turns. The control outcomes of these real-vehicle tests are thoroughly documented in the paper, supported by supplementary video evidence (https://youtu.be/5wp67FcpfL8). Notably, this study is the first to deploy and apply an RL-based transient drift cornering algorithm on consumer-grade electric vehicles.





# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Integrating Active Sensing and Rearrangement Planning for Efficient Object Retrieval from Unknown, Confined, Cluttered Environments
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11733v1
- **Authors**: ['Junyong Kim', 'Hanwen Ren', 'Ahmed H. Qureshi']
- **Abstrat**: Retrieving target objects from unknown, confined spaces remains a challenging task that requires integrated, task-driven active sensing and rearrangement planning. Previous approaches have independently addressed active sensing and rearrangement planning, limiting their practicality in real-world scenarios. This paper presents a new, integrated heuristic-based active sensing and Monte-Carlo Tree Search (MCTS)-based retrieval planning approach. These components provide feedback to one another to actively sense critical, unobserved areas suitable for the retrieval planner to plan a sequence for relocating path-blocking obstacles and a collision-free trajectory for retrieving the target object. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach using a robot arm equipped with an in-hand camera in both simulated and real-world confined, cluttered scenarios. Our framework is compared against various state-of-the-art methods. The results indicate that our proposed approach outperforms baseline methods by a significant margin in terms of the success rate, the object rearrangement planning time consumption and the number of planning trials before successfully retrieving the target. Videos can be found at https://youtu.be/tea7I-3RtV0.




