# reinforcement learning
## Teaching Embodied Reinforcement Learning Agents: Informativeness and Diversity of Language Use
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24218v1
- **Authors**: ['Jiajun Xi', 'Yinong He', 'Jianing Yang', 'Yinpei Dai', 'Joyce Chai']
- **Abstrat**: In real-world scenarios, it is desirable for embodied agents to have the ability to leverage human language to gain explicit or implicit knowledge for learning tasks. Despite recent progress, most previous approaches adopt simple low-level instructions as language inputs, which may not reflect natural human communication. It's not clear how to incorporate rich language use to facilitate task learning. To address this question, this paper studies different types of language inputs in facilitating reinforcement learning (RL) embodied agents. More specifically, we examine how different levels of language informativeness (i.e., feedback on past behaviors and future guidance) and diversity (i.e., variation of language expressions) impact agent learning and inference. Our empirical results based on four RL benchmarks demonstrate that agents trained with diverse and informative language feedback can achieve enhanced generalization and fast adaptation to new tasks. These findings highlight the pivotal role of language use in teaching embodied agents new tasks in an open world. Project website: https://github.com/sled-group/Teachable_RL





## ARQ: A Mixed-Precision Quantization Framework for Accurate and Certifiably Robust DNNs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24214v1
- **Authors**: ['Yuchen Yang', 'Shubham Ugare', 'Yifan Zhao', 'Gagandeep Singh', 'Sasa Misailovic']
- **Abstrat**: Mixed precision quantization has become an important technique for enabling the execution of deep neural networks (DNNs) on limited resource computing platforms. Traditional quantization methods have primarily concentrated on maintaining neural network accuracy, either ignoring the impact of quantization on the robustness of the network, or using only empirical techniques for improving robustness. In contrast, techniques for robustness certification, which can provide strong guarantees about the robustness of DNNs have not been used during quantization due to their high computation cost.   This paper introduces ARQ, an innovative mixed-precision quantization method that not only preserves the clean accuracy of the smoothed classifiers but also maintains their certified robustness. ARQ uses reinforcement learning to find accurate and robust DNN quantization, while efficiently leveraging randomized smoothing, a popular class of statistical DNN verification algorithms, to guide the search process.   We compare ARQ with multiple state-of-the-art quantization techniques on several DNN architectures commonly used in quantization studies: ResNet-20 on CIFAR-10, ResNet-50 on ImageNet, and MobileNetV2 on ImageNet. We demonstrate that ARQ consistently performs better than these baselines across all the benchmarks and the input perturbation levels. In many cases, the performance of ARQ quantized networks can reach that of the original DNN with floating-point weights, but with only 1.5% instructions.





## Zonal RL-RRT: Integrated RL-RRT Path Planning with Collision Probability and Zone Connectivity
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24205v1
- **Authors**: ['AmirMohammad Tahmasbi', 'MohammadSaleh Faghfoorian', 'Saeed Khodaygan', 'Aniket Bera']
- **Abstrat**: Path planning in high-dimensional spaces poses significant challenges, particularly in achieving both time efficiency and a fair success rate. To address these issues, we introduce a novel path-planning algorithm, Zonal RL-RRT, that leverages kd-tree partitioning to segment the map into zones while addressing zone connectivity, ensuring seamless transitions between zones. By breaking down the complex environment into multiple zones and using Q-learning as the high-level decision-maker, our algorithm achieves a 3x improvement in time efficiency compared to basic sampling methods such as RRT and RRT* in forest-like maps. Our approach outperforms heuristic-guided methods like BIT* and Informed RRT* by 1.5x in terms of runtime while maintaining robust and reliable success rates across 2D to 6D environments. Compared to learning-based methods like NeuralRRT* and MPNetSMP, as well as the heuristic RRT*J, our algorithm demonstrates, on average, 1.5x better performance in the same environments. We also evaluate the effectiveness of our approach through simulations of the UR10e arm manipulator in the MuJoCo environment. A key observation of our approach lies in its use of zone partitioning and Reinforcement Learning (RL) for adaptive high-level planning allowing the algorithm to accommodate flexible policies across diverse environments, making it a versatile tool for advanced path planning.





## Language-Driven Policy Distillation for Cooperative Driving in Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24152v1
- **Authors**: ['Jiaqi Liu', 'Chengkai Xu', 'Peng Hang', 'Jian Sun', 'Mingyu Ding', 'Wei Zhan', 'Masayoshi Tomizuka']
- **Abstrat**: The cooperative driving technology of Connected and Autonomous Vehicles (CAVs) is crucial for improving the efficiency and safety of transportation systems. Learning-based methods, such as Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL), have demonstrated strong capabilities in cooperative decision-making tasks. However, existing MARL approaches still face challenges in terms of learning efficiency and performance. In recent years, Large Language Models (LLMs) have rapidly advanced and shown remarkable abilities in various sequential decision-making tasks. To enhance the learning capabilities of cooperative agents while ensuring decision-making efficiency and cost-effectiveness, we propose LDPD, a language-driven policy distillation method for guiding MARL exploration. In this framework, a teacher agent based on LLM trains smaller student agents to achieve cooperative decision-making through its own decision-making demonstrations. The teacher agent enhances the observation information of CAVs and utilizes LLMs to perform complex cooperative decision-making reasoning, which also leverages carefully designed decision-making tools to achieve expert-level decisions, providing high-quality teaching experiences. The student agent then refines the teacher's prior knowledge into its own model through gradient policy updates. The experiments demonstrate that the students can rapidly improve their capabilities with minimal guidance from the teacher and eventually surpass the teacher's performance. Extensive experiments show that our approach demonstrates better performance and learning efficiency compared to baseline methods.





## SPO: Sequential Monte Carlo Policy Optimisation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07963v3
- **Authors**: ['Matthew V Macfarlane', 'Edan Toledo', 'Donal Byrne', 'Paul Duckworth', 'Alexandre Laterre']
- **Abstrat**: Leveraging planning during learning and decision-making is central to the long-term development of intelligent agents. Recent works have successfully combined tree-based search methods and self-play learning mechanisms to this end. However, these methods typically face scaling challenges due to the sequential nature of their search. While practical engineering solutions can partly overcome this, they often result in a negative impact on performance. In this paper, we introduce SPO: Sequential Monte Carlo Policy Optimisation, a model-based reinforcement learning algorithm grounded within the Expectation Maximisation (EM) framework. We show that SPO provides robust policy improvement and efficient scaling properties. The sample-based search makes it directly applicable to both discrete and continuous action spaces without modifications. We demonstrate statistically significant improvements in performance relative to model-free and model-based baselines across both continuous and discrete environments. Furthermore, the parallel nature of SPO's search enables effective utilisation of hardware accelerators, yielding favourable scaling laws.





## Text-Aware Diffusion for Policy Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.01903v2
- **Authors**: ['Calvin Luo', 'Mandy He', 'Zilai Zeng', 'Chen Sun']
- **Abstrat**: Training an agent to achieve particular goals or perform desired behaviors is often accomplished through reinforcement learning, especially in the absence of expert demonstrations. However, supporting novel goals or behaviors through reinforcement learning requires the ad-hoc design of appropriate reward functions, which quickly becomes intractable. To address this challenge, we propose Text-Aware Diffusion for Policy Learning (TADPoLe), which uses a pretrained, frozen text-conditioned diffusion model to compute dense zero-shot reward signals for text-aligned policy learning. We hypothesize that large-scale pretrained generative models encode rich priors that can supervise a policy to behave not only in a text-aligned manner, but also in alignment with a notion of naturalness summarized from internet-scale training data. In our experiments, we demonstrate that TADPoLe is able to learn policies for novel goal-achievement and continuous locomotion behaviors specified by natural language, in both Humanoid and Dog environments. The behaviors are learned zero-shot without ground-truth rewards or expert demonstrations, and are qualitatively more natural according to human evaluation. We further show that TADPoLe performs competitively when applied to robotic manipulation tasks in the Meta-World environment, without having access to any in-domain demonstrations.





## Reinforcement Learning Gradients as Vitamin for Online Finetuning Decision Transformers
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24108v1
- **Authors**: ['Kai Yan', 'Alexander G. Schwing', 'Yu-Xiong Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Decision Transformers have recently emerged as a new and compelling paradigm for offline Reinforcement Learning (RL), completing a trajectory in an autoregressive way. While improvements have been made to overcome initial shortcomings, online finetuning of decision transformers has been surprisingly under-explored. The widely adopted state-of-the-art Online Decision Transformer (ODT) still struggles when pretrained with low-reward offline data. In this paper, we theoretically analyze the online-finetuning of the decision transformer, showing that the commonly used Return-To-Go (RTG) that's far from the expected return hampers the online fine-tuning process. This problem, however, is well-addressed by the value function and advantage of standard RL algorithms. As suggested by our analysis, in our experiments, we hence find that simply adding TD3 gradients to the finetuning process of ODT effectively improves the online finetuning performance of ODT, especially if ODT is pretrained with low-reward offline data. These findings provide new directions to further improve decision transformers.





## Offline Multitask Representation Learning for Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11574v2
- **Authors**: ['Haque Ishfaq', 'Thanh Nguyen-Tang', 'Songtao Feng', 'Raman Arora', 'Mengdi Wang', 'Ming Yin', 'Doina Precup']
- **Abstrat**: We study offline multitask representation learning in reinforcement learning (RL), where a learner is provided with an offline dataset from different tasks that share a common representation and is asked to learn the shared representation. We theoretically investigate offline multitask low-rank RL, and propose a new algorithm called MORL for offline multitask representation learning. Furthermore, we examine downstream RL in reward-free, offline and online scenarios, where a new task is introduced to the agent that shares the same representation as the upstream offline tasks. Our theoretical results demonstrate the benefits of using the learned representation from the upstream offline task instead of directly learning the representation of the low-rank model.





## Progressive Safeguards for Safe and Model-Agnostic Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24096v1
- **Authors**: ['Nabil Omi', 'Hosein Hasanbeig', 'Hiteshi Sharma', 'Sriram K. Rajamani', 'Siddhartha Sen']
- **Abstrat**: In this paper we propose a formal, model-agnostic meta-learning framework for safe reinforcement learning. Our framework is inspired by how parents safeguard their children across a progression of increasingly riskier tasks, imparting a sense of safety that is carried over from task to task. We model this as a meta-learning process where each task is synchronized with a safeguard that monitors safety and provides a reward signal to the agent. The safeguard is implemented as a finite-state machine based on a safety specification; the reward signal is formally shaped around this specification. The safety specification and its corresponding safeguard can be arbitrarily complex and non-Markovian, which adds flexibility to the training process and explainability to the learned policy. The design of the safeguard is manual but it is high-level and model-agnostic, which gives rise to an end-to-end safe learning approach with wide applicability, from pixel-level game control to language model fine-tuning. Starting from a given set of safety specifications (tasks), we train a model such that it can adapt to new specifications using only a small number of training samples. This is made possible by our method for efficiently transferring safety bias between tasks, which effectively minimizes the number of safety violations. We evaluate our framework in a Minecraft-inspired Gridworld, a VizDoom game environment, and an LLM fine-tuning application. Agents trained with our approach achieve near-minimal safety violations, while baselines are shown to underperform.





## Demystifying Linear MDPs and Novel Dynamics Aggregation Framework
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24089v1
- **Authors**: ['Joongkyu Lee', 'Min-hwan Oh']
- **Abstrat**: In this work, we prove that, in linear MDPs, the feature dimension $d$ is lower bounded by $S/U$ in order to aptly represent transition probabilities, where $S$ is the size of the state space and $U$ is the maximum size of directly reachable states. Hence, $d$ can still scale with $S$ depending on the direct reachability of the environment. To address this limitation of linear MDPs, we propose a novel structural aggregation framework based on dynamics, named as the "dynamics aggregation". For this newly proposed framework, we design a provably efficient hierarchical reinforcement learning algorithm in linear function approximation that leverages aggregated sub-structures. Our proposed algorithm exhibits statistical efficiency, achieving a regret of $ \tilde{O} ( d_{\psi}^{3/2} H^{3/2}\sqrt{ N T} )$, where $d_{\psi}$ represents the feature dimension of aggregated subMDPs and $N$ signifies the number of aggregated subMDPs. We establish that the condition $d_{\psi}^3 N \ll d^{3}$ is readily met in most real-world environments with hierarchical structures, enabling a substantial improvement in the regret bound compared to LSVI-UCB, which enjoys a regret of $ \tilde{O} (d^{3/2} H^{3/2} \sqrt{ T})$. To the best of our knowledge, this work presents the first HRL algorithm with linear function approximation that offers provable guarantees.





## Local Linearity: the Key for No-regret Reinforcement Learning in Continuous MDPs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24071v1
- **Authors**: ['Davide Maran', 'Alberto Maria Metelli', 'Matteo Papini', 'Marcello Restelli']
- **Abstrat**: Achieving the no-regret property for Reinforcement Learning (RL) problems in continuous state and action-space environments is one of the major open problems in the field. Existing solutions either work under very specific assumptions or achieve bounds that are vacuous in some regimes. Furthermore, many structural assumptions are known to suffer from a provably unavoidable exponential dependence on the time horizon $H$ in the regret, which makes any possible solution unfeasible in practice. In this paper, we identify local linearity as the feature that makes Markov Decision Processes (MDPs) both learnable (sublinear regret) and feasible (regret that is polynomial in $H$). We define a novel MDP representation class, namely Locally Linearizable MDPs, generalizing other representation classes like Linear MDPs and MDPS with low inherent Belmman error. Then, i) we introduce Cinderella, a no-regret algorithm for this general representation class, and ii) we show that all known learnable and feasible MDP families are representable in this class. We first show that all known feasible MDPs belong to a family that we call Mildly Smooth MDPs. Then, we show how any mildly smooth MDP can be represented as a Locally Linearizable MDP by an appropriate choice of representation. This way, Cinderella is shown to achieve state-of-the-art regret bounds for all previously known (and some new) continuous MDPs for which RL is learnable and feasible.





## Maximum Entropy Hindsight Experience Replay
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24016v1
- **Authors**: ['Douglas C. Crowder', 'Matthew L. Trappett', 'Darrien M. McKenzie', 'Frances S. Chance']
- **Abstrat**: Hindsight experience replay (HER) is well-known to accelerate goal-based reinforcement learning (RL). While HER is generally applied to off-policy RL algorithms, we previously showed that HER can also accelerate on-policy algorithms, such as proximal policy optimization (PPO), for goal-based Predator-Prey environments. Here, we show that we can improve the previous PPO-HER algorithm by selectively applying HER in a principled manner.





## Heterogeneous Knowledge for Augmented Modular Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2306.01158v3
- **Authors**: ['Lorenz Wolf', 'Mirco Musolesi']
- **Abstrat**: Existing modular Reinforcement Learning (RL) architectures are generally based on reusable components, also allowing for "plug-and-play" integration. However, these modules are homogeneous in nature - in fact, they essentially provide policies obtained via RL through the maximization of individual reward functions. Consequently, such solutions still lack the ability to integrate and process multiple types of information (i.e., heterogeneous knowledge representations), such as rules, sub-goals, and skills from various sources. In this paper, we discuss several practical examples of heterogeneous knowledge and propose Augmented Modular Reinforcement Learning (AMRL) to address these limitations. Our framework uses a selector to combine heterogeneous modules and seamlessly incorporate different types of knowledge representations and processing mechanisms. Our results demonstrate the performance and efficiency improvements, also in terms of generalization, that can be achieved by augmenting traditional modular RL with heterogeneous knowledge sources and processing mechanisms. Finally, we examine the safety, robustness, and interpretability issues stemming from the introduction of knowledge heterogeneity.





## DiffLight: A Partial Rewards Conditioned Diffusion Model for Traffic Signal Control with Missing Data
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22938v2
- **Authors**: ['Hanyang Chen', 'Yang Jiang', 'Shengnan Guo', 'Xiaowei Mao', 'Youfang Lin', 'Huaiyu Wan']
- **Abstrat**: The application of reinforcement learning in traffic signal control (TSC) has been extensively researched and yielded notable achievements. However, most existing works for TSC assume that traffic data from all surrounding intersections is fully and continuously available through sensors. In real-world applications, this assumption often fails due to sensor malfunctions or data loss, making TSC with missing data a critical challenge. To meet the needs of practical applications, we introduce DiffLight, a novel conditional diffusion model for TSC under data-missing scenarios in the offline setting. Specifically, we integrate two essential sub-tasks, i.e., traffic data imputation and decision-making, by leveraging a Partial Rewards Conditioned Diffusion (PRCD) model to prevent missing rewards from interfering with the learning process. Meanwhile, to effectively capture the spatial-temporal dependencies among intersections, we design a Spatial-Temporal transFormer (STFormer) architecture. In addition, we propose a Diffusion Communication Mechanism (DCM) to promote better communication and control performance under data-missing scenarios. Extensive experiments on five datasets with various data-missing scenarios demonstrate that DiffLight is an effective controller to address TSC with missing data. The code of DiffLight is released at https://github.com/lokol5579/DiffLight-release.





## RL-STaR: Theoretical Analysis of Reinforcement Learning Frameworks for Self-Taught Reasoner
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23912v1
- **Authors**: ['Fu-Chieh Chang', 'Yu-Ting Lee', 'Hui-Ying Shih', 'Pei-Yuan Wu']
- **Abstrat**: The reasoning abilities of large language models (LLMs) have improved with chain-of-thought (CoT) prompting, allowing models to solve complex tasks in a stepwise manner. However, training CoT capabilities requires detailed reasoning data, which is often scarce. The self-taught reasoner (STaR) framework addresses this by using reinforcement learning to automatically generate reasoning steps, reducing reliance on human-labeled data. Although STaR and its variants have demonstrated empirical success, a theoretical foundation explaining these improvements is lacking. This work provides a theoretical framework for understanding the effectiveness of reinforcement learning on CoT reasoning and STaR. Our contributions are: (1) an analysis of policy improvement, showing why LLM reasoning improves iteratively with STaR; (2) conditions for convergence to an optimal reasoning policy; (3) an examination of STaR's robustness, explaining how it can improve reasoning even when incorporating occasional incorrect steps; and (4) criteria for the quality of pre-trained models necessary to initiate effective reasoning improvement. This framework aims to bridge empirical findings with theoretical insights, advancing reinforcement learning approaches for reasoning in LLMs.





## Reinforcement Learning with Adaptive Regularization for Safe Control of Critical Systems
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.15199v3
- **Authors**: ['Haozhe Tian', 'Homayoun Hamedmoghadam', 'Robert Shorten', 'Pietro Ferraro']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement Learning (RL) is a powerful method for controlling dynamic systems, but its learning mechanism can lead to unpredictable actions that undermine the safety of critical systems. Here, we propose RL with Adaptive Regularization (RL-AR), an algorithm that enables safe RL exploration by combining the RL policy with a policy regularizer that hard-codes the safety constraints. RL-AR performs policy combination via a "focus module," which determines the appropriate combination depending on the state--relying more on the safe policy regularizer for less-exploited states while allowing unbiased convergence for well-exploited states. In a series of critical control applications, we demonstrate that RL-AR not only ensures safety during training but also achieves a return competitive with the standards of model-free RL that disregards safety.





## Noise as a Double-Edged Sword: Reinforcement Learning Exploits Randomized Defenses in Neural Networks
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23870v1
- **Authors**: ['Steve Bakos', 'Pooria Madani', 'Heidar Davoudi']
- **Abstrat**: This study investigates a counterintuitive phenomenon in adversarial machine learning: the potential for noise-based defenses to inadvertently aid evasion attacks in certain scenarios. While randomness is often employed as a defensive strategy against adversarial examples, our research reveals that this approach can sometimes backfire, particularly when facing adaptive attackers using reinforcement learning (RL). Our findings show that in specific cases, especially with visually noisy classes, the introduction of noise in the classifier's confidence values can be exploited by the RL attacker, leading to a significant increase in evasion success rates. In some instances, the noise-based defense scenario outperformed other strategies by up to 20\% on a subset of classes. However, this effect was not consistent across all classifiers tested, highlighting the complexity of the interaction between noise-based defenses and different models. These results suggest that in some cases, noise-based defenses can inadvertently create an adversarial training loop beneficial to the RL attacker. Our study emphasizes the need for a more nuanced approach to defensive strategies in adversarial machine learning, particularly in safety-critical applications. It challenges the assumption that randomness universally enhances defense against evasion attacks and highlights the importance of considering adaptive, RL-based attackers when designing robust defense mechanisms.





## Diffusion-based Reinforcement Learning via Q-weighted Variational Policy Optimization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.16173v2
- **Authors**: ['Shutong Ding', 'Ke Hu', 'Zhenhao Zhang', 'Kan Ren', 'Weinan Zhang', 'Jingyi Yu', 'Jingya Wang', 'Ye Shi']
- **Abstrat**: Diffusion models have garnered widespread attention in Reinforcement Learning (RL) for their powerful expressiveness and multimodality. It has been verified that utilizing diffusion policies can significantly improve the performance of RL algorithms in continuous control tasks by overcoming the limitations of unimodal policies, such as Gaussian policies, and providing the agent with enhanced exploration capabilities. However, existing works mainly focus on the application of diffusion policies in offline RL, while their incorporation into online RL is less investigated. The training objective of the diffusion model, known as the variational lower bound, cannot be optimized directly in online RL due to the unavailability of 'good' actions. This leads to difficulties in conducting diffusion policy improvement. To overcome this, we propose a novel model-free diffusion-based online RL algorithm, Q-weighted Variational Policy Optimization (QVPO). Specifically, we introduce the Q-weighted variational loss, which can be proved to be a tight lower bound of the policy objective in online RL under certain conditions. To fulfill these conditions, the Q-weight transformation functions are introduced for general scenarios. Additionally, to further enhance the exploration capability of the diffusion policy, we design a special entropy regularization term. We also develop an efficient behavior policy to enhance sample efficiency by reducing the variance of the diffusion policy during online interactions. Consequently, the QVPO algorithm leverages the exploration capabilities and multimodality of diffusion policies, preventing the RL agent from converging to a sub-optimal policy. To verify the effectiveness of QVPO, we conduct comprehensive experiments on MuJoCo benchmarks. The final results demonstrate that QVPO achieves state-of-the-art performance on both cumulative reward and sample efficiency.





# TD3
## Reinforcement Learning Gradients as Vitamin for Online Finetuning Decision Transformers
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24108v1
- **Authors**: ['Kai Yan', 'Alexander G. Schwing', 'Yu-Xiong Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Decision Transformers have recently emerged as a new and compelling paradigm for offline Reinforcement Learning (RL), completing a trajectory in an autoregressive way. While improvements have been made to overcome initial shortcomings, online finetuning of decision transformers has been surprisingly under-explored. The widely adopted state-of-the-art Online Decision Transformer (ODT) still struggles when pretrained with low-reward offline data. In this paper, we theoretically analyze the online-finetuning of the decision transformer, showing that the commonly used Return-To-Go (RTG) that's far from the expected return hampers the online fine-tuning process. This problem, however, is well-addressed by the value function and advantage of standard RL algorithms. As suggested by our analysis, in our experiments, we hence find that simply adding TD3 gradients to the finetuning process of ODT effectively improves the online finetuning performance of ODT, especially if ODT is pretrained with low-reward offline data. These findings provide new directions to further improve decision transformers.





# Prioritized Experience Replay
## TF-DDRL: A Transformer-enhanced Distributed DRL Technique for Scheduling IoT Applications in Edge and Cloud Computing Environments
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.14348v2
- **Authors**: ['Zhiyu Wang', 'Mohammad Goudarzi', 'Rajkumar Buyya']
- **Abstrat**: With the continuous increase of IoT applications, their effective scheduling in edge and cloud computing has become a critical challenge. The inherent dynamism and stochastic characteristics of edge and cloud computing, along with IoT applications, necessitate solutions that are highly adaptive. Currently, several centralized Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) techniques are adapted to address the scheduling problem. However, they require a large amount of experience and training time to reach a suitable solution. Moreover, many IoT applications contain multiple interdependent tasks, imposing additional constraints on the scheduling problem. To overcome these challenges, we propose a Transformer-enhanced Distributed DRL scheduling technique, called TF-DDRL, to adaptively schedule heterogeneous IoT applications. This technique follows the Actor-Critic architecture, scales efficiently to multiple distributed servers, and employs an off-policy correction method to stabilize the training process. In addition, Prioritized Experience Replay (PER) and Transformer techniques are introduced to reduce exploration costs and capture long-term dependencies for faster convergence. Extensive results of practical experiments show that TF-DDRL, compared to its counterparts, significantly reduces response time, energy consumption, monetary cost, and weighted cost by up to 60%, 51%, 56%, and 58%, respectively.





# path planning
## Zonal RL-RRT: Integrated RL-RRT Path Planning with Collision Probability and Zone Connectivity
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24205v1
- **Authors**: ['AmirMohammad Tahmasbi', 'MohammadSaleh Faghfoorian', 'Saeed Khodaygan', 'Aniket Bera']
- **Abstrat**: Path planning in high-dimensional spaces poses significant challenges, particularly in achieving both time efficiency and a fair success rate. To address these issues, we introduce a novel path-planning algorithm, Zonal RL-RRT, that leverages kd-tree partitioning to segment the map into zones while addressing zone connectivity, ensuring seamless transitions between zones. By breaking down the complex environment into multiple zones and using Q-learning as the high-level decision-maker, our algorithm achieves a 3x improvement in time efficiency compared to basic sampling methods such as RRT and RRT* in forest-like maps. Our approach outperforms heuristic-guided methods like BIT* and Informed RRT* by 1.5x in terms of runtime while maintaining robust and reliable success rates across 2D to 6D environments. Compared to learning-based methods like NeuralRRT* and MPNetSMP, as well as the heuristic RRT*J, our algorithm demonstrates, on average, 1.5x better performance in the same environments. We also evaluate the effectiveness of our approach through simulations of the UR10e arm manipulator in the MuJoCo environment. A key observation of our approach lies in its use of zone partitioning and Reinforcement Learning (RL) for adaptive high-level planning allowing the algorithm to accommodate flexible policies across diverse environments, making it a versatile tool for advanced path planning.





## SuperFusion: Multilevel LiDAR-Camera Fusion for Long-Range HD Map Generation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2211.15656v3
- **Authors**: ['Hao Dong', 'Weihao Gu', 'Xianjing Zhang', 'Jintao Xu', 'Rui Ai', 'Huimin Lu', 'Juho Kannala', 'Xieyuanli Chen']
- **Abstrat**: High-definition (HD) semantic map generation of the environment is an essential component of autonomous driving. Existing methods have achieved good performance in this task by fusing different sensor modalities, such as LiDAR and camera. However, current works are based on raw data or network feature-level fusion and only consider short-range HD map generation, limiting their deployment to realistic autonomous driving applications. In this paper, we focus on the task of building the HD maps in both short ranges, i.e., within 30 m, and also predicting long-range HD maps up to 90 m, which is required by downstream path planning and control tasks to improve the smoothness and safety of autonomous driving. To this end, we propose a novel network named SuperFusion, exploiting the fusion of LiDAR and camera data at multiple levels. We use LiDAR depth to improve image depth estimation and use image features to guide long-range LiDAR feature prediction. We benchmark our SuperFusion on the nuScenes dataset and a self-recorded dataset and show that it outperforms the state-of-the-art baseline methods with large margins on all intervals. Additionally, we apply the generated HD map to a downstream path planning task, demonstrating that the long-range HD maps predicted by our method can lead to better path planning for autonomous vehicles. Our code has been released at https://github.com/haomo-ai/SuperFusion.





## Plan-on-Graph: Self-Correcting Adaptive Planning of Large Language Model on Knowledge Graphs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23875v1
- **Authors**: ['Liyi Chen', 'Panrong Tong', 'Zhongming Jin', 'Ying Sun', 'Jieping Ye', 'Hui Xiong']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown remarkable reasoning capabilities on complex tasks, but they still suffer from out-of-date knowledge, hallucinations, and opaque decision-making. In contrast, Knowledge Graphs (KGs) can provide explicit and editable knowledge for LLMs to alleviate these issues. Existing paradigm of KG-augmented LLM manually predefines the breadth of exploration space and requires flawless navigation in KGs. However, this paradigm cannot adaptively explore reasoning paths in KGs based on the question semantics and self-correct erroneous reasoning paths, resulting in a bottleneck in efficiency and effect. To address these limitations, we propose a novel self-correcting adaptive planning paradigm for KG-augmented LLM named Plan-on-Graph (PoG), which first decomposes the question into several sub-objectives and then repeats the process of adaptively exploring reasoning paths, updating memory, and reflecting on the need to self-correct erroneous reasoning paths until arriving at the answer. Specifically, three important mechanisms of Guidance, Memory, and Reflection are designed to work together, to guarantee the adaptive breadth of self-correcting planning for graph reasoning. Finally, extensive experiments on three real-world datasets demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of PoG.





## Transition Constrained Bayesian Optimization via Markov Decision Processes
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08406v3
- **Authors**: ['Jose Pablo Folch', 'Calvin Tsay', 'Robert M Lee', 'Behrang Shafei', 'Weronika Ormaniec', 'Andreas Krause', 'Mark van der Wilk', 'Ruth Misener', 'Mojmír Mutný']
- **Abstrat**: Bayesian optimization is a methodology to optimize black-box functions. Traditionally, it focuses on the setting where you can arbitrarily query the search space. However, many real-life problems do not offer this flexibility; in particular, the search space of the next query may depend on previous ones. Example challenges arise in the physical sciences in the form of local movement constraints, required monotonicity in certain variables, and transitions influencing the accuracy of measurements. Altogether, such transition constraints necessitate a form of planning. This work extends classical Bayesian optimization via the framework of Markov Decision Processes. We iteratively solve a tractable linearization of our utility function using reinforcement learning to obtain a policy that plans ahead for the entire horizon. This is a parallel to the optimization of an acquisition function in policy space. The resulting policy is potentially history-dependent and non-Markovian. We showcase applications in chemical reactor optimization, informative path planning, machine calibration, and other synthetic examples.





## An NMPC-ECBF Framework for Dynamic Motion Planning and Execution in vision-based Human-Robot Collaboration
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2304.06923v5
- **Authors**: ['Dianhao Zhang', 'Mien Van', 'Pantelis Sopasakis', 'Seán McLoone']
- **Abstrat**: To enable safe and effective human-robot collaboration (HRC) in smart manufacturing, seamless integration of sensing, cognition, and prediction into the robot controller is critical for real-time awareness, response, and communication inside a heterogeneous environment (robots, humans, and equipment). The proposed approach takes advantage of the prediction capabilities of nonlinear model predictive control (NMPC) to execute a safe path planning based on feedback from a vision system. In order to satisfy the requirement of real-time path planning, an embedded solver based on a penalty method is applied. However, due to tight sampling times NMPC solutions are approximate, and hence the safety of the system cannot be guaranteed. To address this we formulate a novel safety-critical paradigm with an exponential control barrier function (ECBF) used as a safety filter. We also design a simple human-robot collaboration scenario using V-REP to evaluate the performance of the proposed controller and investigate whether integrating human pose prediction can help with safe and efficient collaboration. The robot uses OptiTrack cameras for perception and dynamically generates collision-free trajectories to the predicted target interactive position. Results for a number of different configurations confirm the efficiency of the proposed motion planning and execution framework. It yields a 19.8% reduction in execution time for the HRC task considered.





## Tube RRT*: Efficient Homotopic Path Planning for Swarm Robotics Passing-Through Large-Scale Obstacle Environments
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.09200v2
- **Authors**: ['Pengda Mao', 'Shuli Lv', 'Quan Quan']
- **Abstrat**: Recently, the concept of homotopic trajectory planning has emerged as a novel solution to navigation in large-scale obstacle environments for swarm robotics, offering a wide ranging of applications. However, it lacks an efficient homotopic path planning method in large-scale obstacle environments. This paper introduces Tube RRT*, an innovative homotopic path planning method that builds upon and improves the Rapidly-exploring Random Tree (RRT) algorithm. Tube RRT* is specifically designed to generate homotopic paths, strategically considering gap volume and path length to mitigate swarm congestion and ensure agile navigation. Through comprehensive simulations and experiments, the effectiveness of Tube RRT* is validated.




