# reinforcement learning
## Qwen2.5 Technical Report
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15115v1
- **Authors**: ['Qwen', ':', 'An Yang', 'Baosong Yang', 'Beichen Zhang', 'Binyuan Hui', 'Bo Zheng', 'Bowen Yu', 'Chengyuan Li', 'Dayiheng Liu', 'Fei Huang', 'Haoran Wei', 'Huan Lin', 'Jian Yang', 'Jianhong Tu', 'Jianwei Zhang', 'Jianxin Yang', 'Jiaxi Yang', 'Jingren Zhou', 'Junyang Lin', 'Kai Dang', 'Keming Lu', 'Keqin Bao', 'Kexin Yang', 'Le Yu', 'Mei Li', 'Mingfeng Xue', 'Pei Zhang', 'Qin Zhu', 'Rui Men', 'Runji Lin', 'Tianhao Li', 'Tingyu Xia', 'Xingzhang Ren', 'Xuancheng Ren', 'Yang Fan', 'Yang Su', 'Yichang Zhang', 'Yu Wan', 'Yuqiong Liu', 'Zeyu Cui', 'Zhenru Zhang', 'Zihan Qiu']
- **Abstrat**: In this report, we introduce Qwen2.5, a comprehensive series of large language models (LLMs) designed to meet diverse needs. Compared to previous iterations, Qwen 2.5 has been significantly improved during both the pre-training and post-training stages. In terms of pre-training, we have scaled the high-quality pre-training datasets from the previous 7 trillion tokens to 18 trillion tokens. This provides a strong foundation for common sense, expert knowledge, and reasoning capabilities. In terms of post-training, we implement intricate supervised finetuning with over 1 million samples, as well as multistage reinforcement learning. Post-training techniques enhance human preference, and notably improve long text generation, structural data analysis, and instruction following. To handle diverse and varied use cases effectively, we present Qwen2.5 LLM series in rich sizes. Open-weight offerings include base and instruction-tuned models, with quantized versions available. In addition, for hosted solutions, the proprietary models currently include two mixture-of-experts (MoE) variants: Qwen2.5-Turbo and Qwen2.5-Plus, both available from Alibaba Cloud Model Studio. Qwen2.5 has demonstrated top-tier performance on a wide range of benchmarks evaluating language understanding, reasoning, mathematics, coding, human preference alignment, etc. Specifically, the open-weight flagship Qwen2.5-72B-Instruct outperforms a number of open and proprietary models and demonstrates competitive performance to the state-of-the-art open-weight model, Llama-3-405B-Instruct, which is around 5 times larger. Qwen2.5-Turbo and Qwen2.5-Plus offer superior cost-effectiveness while performing competitively against GPT-4o-mini and GPT-4o respectively. Additionally, as the foundation, Qwen2.5 models have been instrumental in training specialized models such as Qwen2.5-Math, Qwen2.5-Coder, QwQ, and multimodal models.





## Deep Reinforcement Learning Enhanced Rate-Splitting Multiple Access for Interference Mitigation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.05974v2
- **Authors**: ['Osman Nuri Irkicatal', 'Elif Tugce Ceran', 'Melda Yuksel']
- **Abstrat**: This study explores the application of the rate-splitting multiple access (RSMA) technique, vital for interference mitigation in modern communication systems. It investigates the use of precoding methods in RSMA, especially in complex multiple-antenna interference channels, employing deep reinforcement learning. The aim is to optimize precoders and power allocation for common and private data streams involving multiple decision-makers. A multi-agent deep deterministic policy gradient (MADDPG) framework is employed to address this complexity, where decentralized agents collectively learn to optimize actions in a continuous policy space. We also explore the challenges posed by imperfect channel side information at the transmitter. Additionally, decoding order estimation is addressed to determine the optimal decoding sequence for common and private data sequences. Simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed RSMA method based on MADDPG, achieving the upper bound in single-antenna scenarios and closely approaching theoretical limits in multi-antenna scenarios. Comparative analysis shows superiority over other techniques such as MADDPG without rate-splitting, maximal ratio transmission (MRT), zero-forcing (ZF), and leakage-based precoding methods. These findings highlight the potential of deep reinforcement learning-driven RSMA in reducing interference and enhancing system performance in communication systems.





## Task Adaptation of Reinforcement Learning-based NAS Agents through Transfer Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01420v2
- **Authors**: ['Amber Cassimon', 'Siegfried Mercelis', 'Kevin Mets']
- **Abstrat**: Recently, a novel paradigm has been proposed for reinforcement learning-based NAS agents, that revolves around the incremental improvement of a given architecture. We assess the abilities of such reinforcement learning agents to transfer between different tasks. We perform our evaluation using the Trans-NASBench-101 benchmark, and consider the efficacy of the transferred agents, as well as how quickly they can be trained. We find that pretraining an agent on one task benefits the performance of the agent in another task in all but 1 task when considering final performance. We also show that the training procedure for an agent can be shortened significantly by pretraining it on another task. Our results indicate that these effects occur regardless of the source or target task, although they are more pronounced for some tasks than for others. Our results show that transfer learning can be an effective tool in mitigating the computational cost of the initial training procedure for reinforcement learning-based NAS agents.





## Enhancing Ethereum Fraud Detection via Generative and Contrastive Self-supervision
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.00641v2
- **Authors**: ['Chenxiang Jin', 'Jiajun Zhou', 'Chenxuan Xie', 'Shanqing Yu', 'Qi Xuan', 'Xiaoniu Yang']
- **Abstrat**: The rampant fraudulent activities on Ethereum hinder the healthy development of the blockchain ecosystem, necessitating the reinforcement of regulations. However, multiple imbalances involving account interaction frequencies and interaction types in the Ethereum transaction environment pose significant challenges to data mining-based fraud detection research. To address this, we first propose the concept of meta-interactions to refine interaction behaviors in Ethereum, and based on this, we present a dual self-supervision enhanced Ethereum fraud detection framework, named Meta-IFD. This framework initially introduces a generative self-supervision mechanism to augment the interaction features of accounts, followed by a contrastive self-supervision mechanism to differentiate various behavior patterns, and ultimately characterizes the behavioral representations of accounts and mines potential fraud risks through multi-view interaction feature learning. Extensive experiments on real Ethereum datasets demonstrate the effectiveness and superiority of our framework in detecting common Ethereum fraud behaviors such as Ponzi schemes and phishing scams. Additionally, the generative module can effectively alleviate the interaction distribution imbalance in Ethereum data, while the contrastive module significantly enhances the framework's ability to distinguish different behavior patterns. The source code will be available in https://github.com/GISec-Team/Meta-IFD.





## Effective Method with Compression for Distributed and Federated Cocoercive Variational Inequalities
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14935v1
- **Authors**: ['Daniil Medyakov', 'Gleb Molodtsov', 'Aleksandr Beznosikov']
- **Abstrat**: Variational inequalities as an effective tool for solving applied problems, including machine learning tasks, have been attracting more and more attention from researchers in recent years. The use of variational inequalities covers a wide range of areas - from reinforcement learning and generative models to traditional applications in economics and game theory. At the same time, it is impossible to imagine the modern world of machine learning without distributed optimization approaches that can significantly speed up the training process on large amounts of data. However, faced with the high costs of communication between devices in a computing network, the scientific community is striving to develop approaches that make computations cheap and stable. In this paper, we investigate the compression technique of transmitted information and its application to the distributed variational inequalities problem. In particular, we present a method based on advanced techniques originally developed for minimization problems. For the new method, we provide an exhaustive theoretical convergence analysis for cocoersive strongly monotone variational inequalities. We conduct experiments that emphasize the high performance of the presented technique and confirm its practical applicability.





## Hierarchical Subspaces of Policies for Continual Offline Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14865v1
- **Authors**: ['Anthony Kobanda', 'Rémy Portelas', 'Odalric-Ambrym Maillard', 'Ludovic Denoyer']
- **Abstrat**: In dynamic domains such as autonomous robotics and video game simulations, agents must continuously adapt to new tasks while retaining previously acquired skills. This ongoing process, known as Continual Reinforcement Learning, presents significant challenges, including the risk of forgetting past knowledge and the need for scalable solutions as the number of tasks increases. To address these issues, we introduce HIerarchical LOW-rank Subspaces of Policies (HILOW), a novel framework designed for continual learning in offline navigation settings. HILOW leverages hierarchical policy subspaces to enable flexible and efficient adaptation to new tasks while preserving existing knowledge. We demonstrate, through a careful experimental study, the effectiveness of our method in both classical MuJoCo maze environments and complex video game-like simulations, showcasing competitive performance and satisfying adaptability according to classical continual learning metrics, in particular regarding memory usage. Our work provides a promising framework for real-world applications where continuous learning from pre-collected data is essential.





## Entropy Regularized Task Representation Learning for Offline Meta-Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14834v1
- **Authors**: ['Mohammadreza nakhaei', 'Aidan Scannell', 'Joni Pajarinen']
- **Abstrat**: Offline meta-reinforcement learning aims to equip agents with the ability to rapidly adapt to new tasks by training on data from a set of different tasks. Context-based approaches utilize a history of state-action-reward transitions -- referred to as the context -- to infer representations of the current task, and then condition the agent, i.e., the policy and value function, on the task representations. Intuitively, the better the task representations capture the underlying tasks, the better the agent can generalize to new tasks. Unfortunately, context-based approaches suffer from distribution mismatch, as the context in the offline data does not match the context at test time, limiting their ability to generalize to the test tasks. This leads to the task representations overfitting to the offline training data. Intuitively, the task representations should be independent of the behavior policy used to collect the offline data. To address this issue, we approximately minimize the mutual information between the distribution over the task representations and behavior policy by maximizing the entropy of behavior policy conditioned on the task representations. We validate our approach in MuJoCo environments, showing that compared to baselines, our task representations more faithfully represent the underlying tasks, leading to outperforming prior methods in both in-distribution and out-of-distribution tasks.





## MaFeRw: Query Rewriting with Multi-Aspect Feedbacks for Retrieval-Augmented Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.17072v2
- **Authors**: ['Yujing Wang', 'Hainan Zhang', 'Liang Pang', 'Binghui Guo', 'Hongwei Zheng', 'Zhiming Zheng']
- **Abstrat**: In a real-world RAG system, the current query often involves spoken ellipses and ambiguous references from dialogue contexts, necessitating query rewriting to better describe user's information needs. However, traditional context-based rewriting has minimal enhancement on downstream generation tasks due to the lengthy process from query rewriting to response generation. Some researchers try to utilize reinforcement learning with generation feedback to assist the rewriter, but these sparse rewards provide little guidance in most cases, leading to unstable training and generation results. We find that user's needs are also reflected in the gold document, retrieved documents and ground truth. Therefore, by feeding back these multi-aspect dense rewards to query rewriting, more stable and satisfactory responses can be achieved. In this paper, we propose a novel query rewriting method MaFeRw, which improves RAG performance by integrating multi-aspect feedback from both the retrieval process and generated results. Specifically, we first use manual data to train a T5 model for the rewriter initialization. Next, we design three metrics as reinforcement learning feedback: the similarity between the rewritten query and the gold document, the ranking metrics, and ROUGE between the generation and the ground truth. Inspired by RLAIF, we train three kinds of reward models for the above metrics to achieve more efficient training. Finally, we combine the scores of these reward models as feedback, and use PPO algorithm to explore the optimal query rewriting strategy. Experimental results on two conversational RAG datasets demonstrate that MaFeRw achieves superior generation metrics and more stable training compared to baselines.





## Agent-Temporal Credit Assignment for Optimal Policy Preservation in Sparse Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14779v1
- **Authors**: ['Aditya Kapoor', 'Sushant Swamy', 'Kale-ab Tessera', 'Mayank Baranwal', 'Mingfei Sun', 'Harshad Khadilkar', 'Stefano V. Albrecht']
- **Abstrat**: In multi-agent environments, agents often struggle to learn optimal policies due to sparse or delayed global rewards, particularly in long-horizon tasks where it is challenging to evaluate actions at intermediate time steps. We introduce Temporal-Agent Reward Redistribution (TAR$^2$), a novel approach designed to address the agent-temporal credit assignment problem by redistributing sparse rewards both temporally and across agents. TAR$^2$ decomposes sparse global rewards into time-step-specific rewards and calculates agent-specific contributions to these rewards. We theoretically prove that TAR$^2$ is equivalent to potential-based reward shaping, ensuring that the optimal policy remains unchanged. Empirical results demonstrate that TAR$^2$ stabilizes and accelerates the learning process. Additionally, we show that when TAR$^2$ is integrated with single-agent reinforcement learning algorithms, it performs as well as or better than traditional multi-agent reinforcement learning methods.





## Learning to Generate Research Idea with Dynamic Control
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14626v1
- **Authors**: ['Ruochen Li', 'Liqiang Jing', 'Chi Han', 'Jiawei Zhou', 'Xinya Du']
- **Abstrat**: The rapid advancements in large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated their potential to accelerate scientific discovery, particularly in automating the process of research ideation. LLM-based systems have shown promise in generating hypotheses and research ideas. However, current approaches predominantly rely on prompting-based pre-trained models, limiting their ability to optimize generated content effectively. Moreover, they also lack the capability to deal with the complex interdependence and inherent restrictions among novelty, feasibility, and effectiveness, which remains challenging due to the inherent trade-offs among these dimensions, such as the innovation-feasibility conflict. To address these limitations, we for the first time propose fine-tuning LLMs to be better idea proposers and introduce a novel framework that employs a two-stage approach combining Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) and controllable Reinforcement Learning (RL). In the SFT stage, the model learns foundational patterns from pairs of research papers and follow-up ideas. In the RL stage, multi-dimensional reward modeling, guided by fine-grained feedback, evaluates and optimizes the generated ideas across key metrics. Dimensional controllers enable dynamic adjustment of generation, while a sentence-level decoder ensures context-aware emphasis during inference. Our framework provides a balanced approach to research ideation, achieving high-quality outcomes by dynamically navigating the trade-offs among novelty, feasibility, and effectiveness.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning