# reinforcement learning
## Environment as Policy: Learning to Race in Unseen Tracks
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22308v1
- **Authors**: ['Hongze Wang', 'Jiaxu Xing', 'Nico Messikommer', 'Davide Scaramuzza']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning (RL) has achieved outstanding success in complex robot control tasks, such as drone racing, where the RL agents have outperformed human champions in a known racing track. However, these agents fail in unseen track configurations, always requiring complete retraining when presented with new track layouts. This work aims to develop RL agents that generalize effectively to novel track configurations without retraining. The naive solution of training directly on a diverse set of track layouts can overburden the agent, resulting in suboptimal policy learning as the increased complexity of the environment impairs the agent's ability to learn to fly. To enhance the generalizability of the RL agent, we propose an adaptive environment-shaping framework that dynamically adjusts the training environment based on the agent's performance. We achieve this by leveraging a secondary RL policy to design environments that strike a balance between being challenging and achievable, allowing the agent to adapt and improve progressively. Using our adaptive environment shaping, one single racing policy efficiently learns to race in diverse challenging tracks. Experimental results validated in both simulation and the real world show that our method enables drones to successfully fly complex and unseen race tracks, outperforming existing environment-shaping techniques. Project page: http://rpg.ifi.uzh.ch/env_as_policy/index.html





## Empirical Design in Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2304.01315v2
- **Authors**: ['Andrew Patterson', 'Samuel Neumann', 'Martha White', 'Adam White']
- **Abstrat**: Empirical design in reinforcement learning is no small task. Running good experiments requires attention to detail and at times significant computational resources. While compute resources available per dollar have continued to grow rapidly, so have the scale of typical experiments in reinforcement learning. It is now common to benchmark agents with millions of parameters against dozens of tasks, each using the equivalent of 30 days of experience. The scale of these experiments often conflict with the need for proper statistical evidence, especially when comparing algorithms. Recent studies have highlighted how popular algorithms are sensitive to hyper-parameter settings and implementation details, and that common empirical practice leads to weak statistical evidence (Machado et al., 2018; Henderson et al., 2018). Here we take this one step further.   This manuscript represents both a call to action, and a comprehensive resource for how to do good experiments in reinforcement learning. In particular, we cover: the statistical assumptions underlying common performance measures, how to properly characterize performance variation and stability, hypothesis testing, special considerations for comparing multiple agents, baseline and illustrative example construction, and how to deal with hyper-parameters and experimenter bias. Throughout we highlight common mistakes found in the literature and the statistical consequences of those in example experiments. The objective of this document is to provide answers on how we can use our unprecedented compute to do good science in reinforcement learning, as well as stay alert to potential pitfalls in our empirical design.





## EconoJax: A Fast & Scalable Economic Simulation in Jax
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22165v1
- **Authors**: ['Koen Ponse', 'Aske Plaat', 'Niki van Stein', 'Thomas M. Moerland']
- **Abstrat**: Accurate economic simulations often require many experimental runs, particularly when combined with reinforcement learning. Unfortunately, training reinforcement learning agents in multi-agent economic environments can be slow. This paper introduces EconoJax, a fast simulated economy, based on the AI economist. EconoJax, and its training pipeline, are completely written in JAX. This allows EconoJax to scale to large population sizes and perform large experiments, while keeping training times within minutes. Through experiments with populations of 100 agents, we show how real-world economic behavior emerges through training within 15 minutes, in contrast to previous work that required several days. To aid and inspire researchers to build more rich and dynamic economic simulations, we open-source EconoJax on Github at: https://github.com/ponseko/econojax.





## Learning Successor Features the Simple Way
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22133v1
- **Authors**: ['Raymond Chua', 'Arna Ghosh', 'Christos Kaplanis', 'Blake A. Richards', 'Doina Precup']
- **Abstrat**: In Deep Reinforcement Learning (RL), it is a challenge to learn representations that do not exhibit catastrophic forgetting or interference in non-stationary environments. Successor Features (SFs) offer a potential solution to this challenge. However, canonical techniques for learning SFs from pixel-level observations often lead to representation collapse, wherein representations degenerate and fail to capture meaningful variations in the data. More recent methods for learning SFs can avoid representation collapse, but they often involve complex losses and multiple learning phases, reducing their efficiency. We introduce a novel, simple method for learning SFs directly from pixels. Our approach uses a combination of a Temporal-difference (TD) loss and a reward prediction loss, which together capture the basic mathematical definition of SFs. We show that our approach matches or outperforms existing SF learning techniques in both 2D (Minigrid), 3D (Miniworld) mazes and Mujoco, for both single and continual learning scenarios. As well, our technique is efficient, and can reach higher levels of performance in less time than other approaches. Our work provides a new, streamlined technique for learning SFs directly from pixel observations, with no pretraining required.





## PC-Gym: Benchmark Environments For Process Control Problems
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22093v1
- **Authors**: ['Maximilian Bloor', 'José Torraca', 'Ilya Orson Sandoval', 'Akhil Ahmed', 'Martha White', 'Mehmet Mercangöz', 'Calvin Tsay', 'Ehecatl Antonio Del Rio Chanona', 'Max Mowbray']
- **Abstrat**: PC-Gym is an open-source tool designed to facilitate the development and evaluation of reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms for chemical process control problems. It provides a suite of environments that model a range of chemical processes, incorporating nonlinear dynamics, process disturbances, and constraints. Key features include flexible constraint handling mechanisms, customizable disturbance generation, and modular reward function design. The framework enables benchmarking state-of-the-art RL algorithms against a nonlinear Model Predictive Control (NMPC) oracle across various process control scenarios. Case studies demonstrate {\sf PC-Gym}'s effectiveness in evaluating RL approaches for the control of various chemical engineering systems such as a continuously stirred tank reactor, multistage extraction process, and crystallization reactor. The framework's ability to incorporate realistic disturbances and constraints allows for robust testing of control strategies. Results highlight the performance gaps between RL algorithms and NMPC oracles, demonstrating the utility of {\sf PC-Gym} for algorithm benchmarking and suggesting areas for improvement in RL-based process control. By offering a standardized platform for developing and assessing RL-based control strategies, {\sf PC-Gym} aims to accelerate research at the intersection of machine learning and process systems engineering. It bridges the gap between theoretical advancements in RL and practical applications in industrial process control, providing researchers and practitioners with a valuable tool for exploring data-driven control solutions for complex chemical processes.





## CodeCloak: A Method for Evaluating and Mitigating Code Leakage by LLM Code Assistants
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.09066v3
- **Authors**: ['Amit Finkman Noah', 'Avishag Shapira', 'Eden Bar Kochva', 'Inbar Maimon', 'Dudu Mimran', 'Yuval Elovici', 'Asaf Shabtai']
- **Abstrat**: LLM-based code assistants are becoming increasingly popular among developers. These tools help developers improve their coding efficiency and reduce errors by providing real-time suggestions based on the developer's codebase. While beneficial, the use of these tools can inadvertently expose the developer's proprietary code to the code assistant service provider during the development process. In this work, we propose a method to mitigate the risk of code leakage when using LLM-based code assistants. CodeCloak is a novel deep reinforcement learning agent that manipulates the prompts before sending them to the code assistant service. CodeCloak aims to achieve the following two contradictory goals: (i) minimizing code leakage, while (ii) preserving relevant and useful suggestions for the developer. Our evaluation, employing StarCoder and Code Llama, LLM-based code assistants models, demonstrates CodeCloak's effectiveness on a diverse set of code repositories of varying sizes, as well as its transferability across different models. We also designed a method for reconstructing the developer's original codebase from code segments sent to the code assistant service (i.e., prompts) during the development process, to thoroughly analyze code leakage risks and evaluate the effectiveness of CodeCloak under practical development scenarios.





## Opt2Skill: Imitating Dynamically-feasible Whole-Body Trajectories for Versatile Humanoid Loco-Manipulation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.20514v2
- **Authors**: ['Fukang Liu', 'Zhaoyuan Gu', 'Yilin Cai', 'Ziyi Zhou', 'Shijie Zhao', 'Hyunyoung Jung', 'Sehoon Ha', 'Yue Chen', 'Danfei Xu', 'Ye Zhao']
- **Abstrat**: Humanoid robots are designed to perform diverse loco-manipulation tasks. However, they face challenges due to their high-dimensional and unstable dynamics, as well as the complex contact-rich nature of the tasks. Model-based optimal control methods offer precise and systematic control but are limited by high computational complexity and accurate contact sensing. On the other hand, reinforcement learning (RL) provides robustness and handles high-dimensional spaces but suffers from inefficient learning, unnatural motion, and sim-to-real gaps. To address these challenges, we introduce Opt2Skill, an end-to-end pipeline that combines model-based trajectory optimization with RL to achieve robust whole-body loco-manipulation. We generate reference motions for the Digit humanoid robot using differential dynamic programming (DDP) and train RL policies to track these trajectories. Our results demonstrate that Opt2Skill outperforms pure RL methods in both training efficiency and task performance, with optimal trajectories that account for torque limits enhancing trajectory tracking. We successfully transfer our approach to real-world applications.





## PrefPaint: Aligning Image Inpainting Diffusion Model with Human Preference
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.21966v1
- **Authors**: ['Kendong Liu', 'Zhiyu Zhu', 'Chuanhao Li', 'Hui Liu', 'Huanqiang Zeng', 'Junhui Hou']
- **Abstrat**: In this paper, we make the first attempt to align diffusion models for image inpainting with human aesthetic standards via a reinforcement learning framework, significantly improving the quality and visual appeal of inpainted images. Specifically, instead of directly measuring the divergence with paired images, we train a reward model with the dataset we construct, consisting of nearly 51,000 images annotated with human preferences. Then, we adopt a reinforcement learning process to fine-tune the distribution of a pre-trained diffusion model for image inpainting in the direction of higher reward. Moreover, we theoretically deduce the upper bound on the error of the reward model, which illustrates the potential confidence of reward estimation throughout the reinforcement alignment process, thereby facilitating accurate regularization. Extensive experiments on inpainting comparison and downstream tasks, such as image extension and 3D reconstruction, demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, showing significant improvements in the alignment of inpainted images with human preference compared with state-of-the-art methods. This research not only advances the field of image inpainting but also provides a framework for incorporating human preference into the iterative refinement of generative models based on modeling reward accuracy, with broad implications for the design of visually driven AI applications. Our code and dataset are publicly available at https://prefpaint.github.io.





## Dynamic Multi-Reward Weighting for Multi-Style Controllable Generation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.14146v3
- **Authors**: ['Karin de Langis', 'Ryan Koo', 'Dongyeop Kang']
- **Abstrat**: Textual style expresses a diverse set of information, including interpersonal dynamics (e.g., formality) and the author's emotions or attitudes (e.g., disgust). An open question is how language models can be explicitly controlled so that they weave together target styles when generating text: for example, to produce text that is both negative and non-toxic. One approach to such controlled generation is multi-objective reinforcement learning (RL), but how best to combine multiple objectives in a reward function is an open question. In this paper, we investigate various formulations of multi-style rewards, including calibrated outputs from discriminators and dynamic weighting by discriminator gradient magnitudes. We find that our proposed dynamic weighting outperforms static weighting approaches with respect to style control while maintaining linguistic quality, and we explore its effectiveness in 2- and 3-style control.





## Combining Counterfactual Regret Minimization with Information Gain to Solve Extensive Games with Unknown Environments
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2110.07892v2
- **Authors**: ['Chen Qiu', 'Xuan Wang', 'Tianzi Ma', 'Yaojun Wen', 'Jiajia Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: Counterfactual regret minimization (CFR) is an effective algorithm for solving extensive games with imperfect information (IIEGs). However, CFR is only allowed to be applied in known environments, where the transition function of the chance player and the reward function of the terminal node in IIEGs are known. In uncertain situations, such as reinforcement learning (RL) problems, CFR is not applicable. Thus, applying CFR in unknown environments is a significant challenge that can also address some difficulties in the real world. Currently, advanced solutions require more interactions with the environment and are limited by large single-sampling variances to narrow the gap with the real environment. In this paper, we propose a method that combines CFR with information gain to compute the Nash equilibrium (NE) of IIEGs with unknown environments. We use a curiosity-driven approach to explore unknown environments and minimize the discrepancy between uncertain and real environments. Additionally, by incorporating information into the reward, the average strategy calculated by CFR can be directly implemented as the interaction policy with the environment, thereby improving the exploration efficiency of our method in uncertain environments. Through experiments on standard testbeds such as Kuhn poker and Leduc poker, our method significantly reduces the number of interactions with the environment compared to the different baselines and computes a more accurate approximate NE within the same number of interaction rounds.





## Human-Readable Programs as Actors of Reinforcement Learning Agents Using Critic-Moderated Evolution
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.21940v1
- **Authors**: ['Senne Deproost', 'Denis Steckelmacher', 'Ann Nowé']
- **Abstrat**: With Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) being increasingly considered for the control of real-world systems, the lack of transparency of the neural network at the core of RL becomes a concern. Programmatic Reinforcement Learning (PRL) is able to to create representations of this black-box in the form of source code, not only increasing the explainability of the controller but also allowing for user adaptations. However, these methods focus on distilling a black-box policy into a program and do so after learning using the Mean Squared Error between produced and wanted behaviour, discarding other elements of the RL algorithm. The distilled policy may therefore perform significantly worse than the black-box learned policy.   In this paper, we propose to directly learn a program as the policy of an RL agent. We build on TD3 and use its critics as the basis of the objective function of a genetic algorithm that syntheses the program. Our approach builds the program during training, as opposed to after the fact. This steers the program to actual high rewards, instead of a simple Mean Squared Error. Also, our approach leverages the TD3 critics to achieve high sample-efficiency, as opposed to pure genetic methods that rely on Monte-Carlo evaluations. Our experiments demonstrate the validity, explainability and sample-efficiency of our approach in a simple gridworld environment.





## Generalizing Consistency Policy to Visual RL with Prioritized Proximal Experience Regularization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.00051v2
- **Authors**: ['Haoran Li', 'Zhennan Jiang', 'Yuhui Chen', 'Dongbin Zhao']
- **Abstrat**: With high-dimensional state spaces, visual reinforcement learning (RL) faces significant challenges in exploitation and exploration, resulting in low sample efficiency and training stability. As a time-efficient diffusion model, although consistency models have been validated in online state-based RL, it is still an open question whether it can be extended to visual RL. In this paper, we investigate the impact of non-stationary distribution and the actor-critic framework on consistency policy in online RL, and find that consistency policy was unstable during the training, especially in visual RL with the high-dimensional state space. To this end, we suggest sample-based entropy regularization to stabilize the policy training, and propose a consistency policy with prioritized proximal experience regularization (CP3ER) to improve sample efficiency. CP3ER achieves new state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance in 21 tasks across DeepMind control suite and Meta-world. To our knowledge, CP3ER is the first method to apply diffusion/consistency models to visual RL and demonstrates the potential of consistency models in visual RL. More visualization results are available at https://jzndd.github.io/CP3ER-Page/.





## Reinforcement Learning for Aligning Large Language Models Agents with Interactive Environments: Quantifying and Mitigating Prompt Overfitting
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.19920v2
- **Authors**: ['Mohamed Salim Aissi', 'Clement Romac', 'Thomas Carta', 'Sylvain Lamprier', 'Pierre-Yves Oudeyer', 'Olivier Sigaud', 'Laure Soulier', 'Nicolas Thome']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning (RL) is a promising approach for aligning large language models (LLMs) knowledge with sequential decision-making tasks. However, few studies have thoroughly investigated the impact on LLM agents capabilities of fine-tuning them with RL in a specific environment. In this paper, we propose a novel framework to analyze the sensitivity of LLMs to prompt formulations following RL training in a textual environment. Our findings reveal that the performance of LLMs degrades when faced with prompt formulations different from those used during the RL training phase. Besides, we analyze the source of this sensitivity by examining the model's internal representations and salient tokens. Finally, we propose to use a contrastive loss to mitigate this sensitivity and improve the robustness and generalization capabilities of LLMs.





## Multilevel Bayesian Deep Neural Networks
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.12961v4
- **Authors**: ['Neil K. Chada', 'Ajay Jasra', 'Kody J. H. Law', 'Sumeetpal S. Singh']
- **Abstrat**: In this article we consider Bayesian inference associated to deep neural networks (DNNs) and in particular, trace-class neural network (TNN) priors which can be preferable to traditional DNNs as (a) they are identifiable and (b) they possess desirable convergence properties. TNN priors are defined on functions with infinitely many hidden units, and have strongly convergent Karhunen-Loeve-type approximations with finitely many hidden units. A practical hurdle is that the Bayesian solution is computationally demanding, requiring simulation methods, so approaches to drive down the complexity are needed. In this paper, we leverage the strong convergence of TNN in order to apply Multilevel Monte Carlo (MLMC) to these models. In particular, an MLMC method that was introduced is used to approximate posterior expectations of Bayesian TNN models with optimal computational complexity, and this is mathematically proved. The results are verified with several numerical experiments on model problems arising in machine learning, including regression, classification, and reinforcement learning.





## Towards Visual Text Design Transfer Across Languages
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18823v2
- **Authors**: ['Yejin Choi', 'Jiwan Chung', 'Sumin Shim', 'Giyeong Oh', 'Youngjae Yu']
- **Abstrat**: Visual text design plays a critical role in conveying themes, emotions, and atmospheres in multimodal formats such as film posters and album covers. Translating these visual and textual elements across languages extends the concept of translation beyond mere text, requiring the adaptation of aesthetic and stylistic features. To address this, we introduce a novel task of Multimodal Style Translation (MuST-Bench), a benchmark designed to evaluate the ability of visual text generation models to perform translation across different writing systems while preserving design intent. Our initial experiments on MuST-Bench reveal that existing visual text generation models struggle with the proposed task due to the inadequacy of textual descriptions in conveying visual design. In response, we introduce SIGIL, a framework for multimodal style translation that eliminates the need for style descriptions. SIGIL enhances image generation models through three innovations: glyph latent for multilingual settings, pretrained VAEs for stable style guidance, and an OCR model with reinforcement learning feedback for optimizing readable character generation. SIGIL outperforms existing baselines by achieving superior style consistency and legibility while maintaining visual fidelity, setting itself apart from traditional description-based approaches. We release MuST-Bench publicly for broader use and exploration https://huggingface.co/datasets/yejinc/MuST-Bench.





## Model-based RL as a Minimalist Approach to Horizon-Free and Second-Order Bounds
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.08994v3
- **Authors**: ['Zhiyong Wang', 'Dongruo Zhou', 'John C. S. Lui', 'Wen Sun']
- **Abstrat**: Learning a transition model via Maximum Likelihood Estimation (MLE) followed by planning inside the learned model is perhaps the most standard and simplest Model-based Reinforcement Learning (RL) framework. In this work, we show that such a simple Model-based RL scheme, when equipped with optimistic and pessimistic planning procedures, achieves strong regret and sample complexity bounds in online and offline RL settings. Particularly, we demonstrate that under the conditions where the trajectory-wise reward is normalized between zero and one and the transition is time-homogenous, it achieves nearly horizon-free and second-order bounds. Nearly horizon-free means that our bounds have no polynomial dependence on the horizon of the Markov Decision Process. A second-order bound is a type of instance-dependent bound that scales with respect to the variances of the returns of the policies which can be small when the system is nearly deterministic and (or) the optimal policy has small values. We highlight that our algorithms are simple, fairly standard, and indeed have been extensively studied in the RL literature: they learn a model via MLE, build a version space around the MLE solution, and perform optimistic or pessimistic planning depending on whether operating in the online or offline mode. These algorithms do not rely on additional specialized algorithmic designs such as learning variances and performing variance-weighted learning and thus can easily leverage non-linear function approximations. The simplicity of the algorithms also implies that our horizon-free and second-order regret analysis is actually standard and mainly follows the general framework of optimism/pessimism in the face of uncertainty.





## Precise and Dexterous Robotic Manipulation via Human-in-the-Loop Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.21845v1
- **Authors**: ['Jianlan Luo', 'Charles Xu', 'Jeffrey Wu', 'Sergey Levine']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning (RL) holds great promise for enabling autonomous acquisition of complex robotic manipulation skills, but realizing this potential in real-world settings has been challenging. We present a human-in-the-loop vision-based RL system that demonstrates impressive performance on a diverse set of dexterous manipulation tasks, including dynamic manipulation, precision assembly, and dual-arm coordination. Our approach integrates demonstrations and human corrections, efficient RL algorithms, and other system-level design choices to learn policies that achieve near-perfect success rates and fast cycle times within just 1 to 2.5 hours of training. We show that our method significantly outperforms imitation learning baselines and prior RL approaches, with an average 2x improvement in success rate and 1.8x faster execution. Through extensive experiments and analysis, we provide insights into the effectiveness of our approach, demonstrating how it learns robust, adaptive policies for both reactive and predictive control strategies. Our results suggest that RL can indeed learn a wide range of complex vision-based manipulation policies directly in the real world within practical training times. We hope this work will inspire a new generation of learned robotic manipulation techniques, benefiting both industrial applications and research advancements. Videos and code are available at our project website https://hil-serl.github.io/.





# TD3
## Human-Readable Programs as Actors of Reinforcement Learning Agents Using Critic-Moderated Evolution
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.21940v1
- **Authors**: ['Senne Deproost', 'Denis Steckelmacher', 'Ann Nowé']
- **Abstrat**: With Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) being increasingly considered for the control of real-world systems, the lack of transparency of the neural network at the core of RL becomes a concern. Programmatic Reinforcement Learning (PRL) is able to to create representations of this black-box in the form of source code, not only increasing the explainability of the controller but also allowing for user adaptations. However, these methods focus on distilling a black-box policy into a program and do so after learning using the Mean Squared Error between produced and wanted behaviour, discarding other elements of the RL algorithm. The distilled policy may therefore perform significantly worse than the black-box learned policy.   In this paper, we propose to directly learn a program as the policy of an RL agent. We build on TD3 and use its critics as the basis of the objective function of a genetic algorithm that syntheses the program. Our approach builds the program during training, as opposed to after the fact. This steers the program to actual high rewards, instead of a simple Mean Squared Error. Also, our approach leverages the TD3 critics to achieve high sample-efficiency, as opposed to pure genetic methods that rely on Monte-Carlo evaluations. Our experiments demonstrate the validity, explainability and sample-efficiency of our approach in a simple gridworld environment.





# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Senna: Bridging Large Vision-Language Models and End-to-End Autonomous Driving
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22313v1
- **Authors**: ['Bo Jiang', 'Shaoyu Chen', 'Bencheng Liao', 'Xingyu Zhang', 'Wei Yin', 'Qian Zhang', 'Chang Huang', 'Wenyu Liu', 'Xinggang Wang']
- **Abstrat**: End-to-end autonomous driving demonstrates strong planning capabilities with large-scale data but still struggles in complex, rare scenarios due to limited commonsense. In contrast, Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) excel in scene understanding and reasoning. The path forward lies in merging the strengths of both approaches. Previous methods using LVLMs to predict trajectories or control signals yield suboptimal results, as LVLMs are not well-suited for precise numerical predictions. This paper presents Senna, an autonomous driving system combining an LVLM (Senna-VLM) with an end-to-end model (Senna-E2E). Senna decouples high-level planning from low-level trajectory prediction. Senna-VLM generates planning decisions in natural language, while Senna-E2E predicts precise trajectories. Senna-VLM utilizes a multi-image encoding approach and multi-view prompts for efficient scene understanding. Besides, we introduce planning-oriented QAs alongside a three-stage training strategy, which enhances Senna-VLM's planning performance while preserving commonsense. Extensive experiments on two datasets show that Senna achieves state-of-the-art planning performance. Notably, with pre-training on a large-scale dataset DriveX and fine-tuning on nuScenes, Senna significantly reduces average planning error by 27.12% and collision rate by 33.33% over model without pre-training. We believe Senna's cross-scenario generalization and transferability are essential for achieving fully autonomous driving. Code and models will be released at https://github.com/hustvl/Senna.





## Homotopy-Aware Multi-Agent Path Planning on Plane
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2310.01945v4
- **Authors**: ['Kazumi Kasaura']
- **Abstrat**: We propose an efficient framework using Dynnikov coordinates for homotopy-aware multi-agent path planning in planar domains that may contain obstacles. We developed a method for generating multiple homotopically distinct solutions for the multi-agent path planning problem in planar domains by combining our framework with revised prioritized planning and proved its completeness under specific assumptions. Experimentally, we demonstrated that our method is significantly faster than a method without Dynnikov coordinates. We also confirmed experimentally that homotopy-aware planning contributes to avoiding locally optimal solutions when searching for low-cost trajectories for a swarm of agents in a continuous environment.





## ActiveSplat: High-Fidelity Scene Reconstruction through Active Gaussian Splatting
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.21955v1
- **Authors**: ['Yuetao Li', 'Zijia Kuang', 'Ting Li', 'Guyue Zhou', 'Shaohui Zhang', 'Zike Yan']
- **Abstrat**: We propose ActiveSplat, an autonomous high-fidelity reconstruction system leveraging Gaussian splatting. Taking advantage of efficient and realistic rendering, the system establishes a unified framework for online mapping, viewpoint selection, and path planning. The key to ActiveSplat is a hybrid map representation that integrates both dense information about the environment and a sparse abstraction of the workspace. Therefore, the system leverages sparse topology for efficient viewpoint sampling and path planning, while exploiting view-dependent dense prediction for viewpoint selection, facilitating efficient decision-making with promising accuracy and completeness. A hierarchical planning strategy based on the topological map is adopted to mitigate repetitive trajectories and improve local granularity given limited budgets, ensuring high-fidelity reconstruction with photorealistic view synthesis. Extensive experiments and ablation studies validate the efficacy of the proposed method in terms of reconstruction accuracy, data coverage, and exploration efficiency. Project page: https://li-yuetao.github.io/ActiveSplat/.




