# reinforcement learning
## Efficient Exploration and Discriminative World Model Learning with an Object-Centric Abstraction
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.11816v1
- **Authors**: ['Anthony GX-Chen', 'Kenneth Marino', 'Rob Fergus']
- **Abstrat**: In the face of difficult exploration problems in reinforcement learning, we study whether giving an agent an object-centric mapping (describing a set of items and their attributes) allow for more efficient learning. We found this problem is best solved hierarchically by modelling items at a higher level of state abstraction to pixels, and attribute change at a higher level of temporal abstraction to primitive actions. This abstraction simplifies the transition dynamic by making specific future states easier to predict. We make use of this to propose a fully model-based algorithm that learns a discriminative world model, plans to explore efficiently with only a count-based intrinsic reward, and can subsequently plan to reach any discovered (abstract) states.   We demonstrate the model's ability to (i) efficiently solve single tasks, (ii) transfer zero-shot and few-shot across item types and environments, and (iii) plan across long horizons. Across a suite of 2D crafting and MiniHack environments, we empirically show our model significantly out-performs state-of-the-art low-level methods (without abstraction), as well as performant model-free and model-based methods using the same abstraction. Finally, we show how to reinforce learn low level object-perturbing policies, as well as supervise learn the object mapping itself.





## Critique-out-Loud Reward Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.11791v1
- **Authors**: ['Zachary Ankner', 'Mansheej Paul', 'Brandon Cui', 'Jonathan D. Chang', 'Prithviraj Ammanabrolu']
- **Abstrat**: Traditionally, reward models used for reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) are trained to directly predict preference scores without leveraging the generation capabilities of the underlying large language model (LLM). This limits the capabilities of reward models as they must reason implicitly about the quality of a response, i.e., preference modeling must be performed in a single forward pass through the model. To enable reward models to reason explicitly about the quality of a response, we introduce Critique-out-Loud (CLoud) reward models. CLoud reward models operate by first generating a natural language critique of the assistant's response that is then used to predict a scalar reward for the quality of the response. We demonstrate the success of CLoud reward models for both Llama-3-8B and 70B base models: compared to classic reward models CLoud reward models improve pairwise preference classification accuracy on RewardBench by 4.65 and 5.84 percentage points for the 8B and 70B base models respectively. Furthermore, CLoud reward models lead to a Pareto improvement for win rate on ArenaHard when used as the scoring model for Best-of-N. Finally, we explore how to exploit the dynamic inference compute capabilities of CLoud reward models by performing self-consistency decoding for reward prediction.





## Deviations from the Nash equilibrium and emergence of tacit collusion in a two-player optimal execution game with reinforcement learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.11773v1
- **Authors**: ['Fabrizio Lillo', 'Andrea Macrì']
- **Abstrat**: The use of reinforcement learning algorithms in financial trading is becoming increasingly prevalent. However, the autonomous nature of these algorithms can lead to unexpected outcomes that deviate from traditional game-theoretical predictions and may even destabilize markets. In this study, we examine a scenario in which two autonomous agents, modeled with Double Deep Q-Learning, learn to liquidate the same asset optimally in the presence of market impact, using the Almgren-Chriss (2000) framework. Our results show that the strategies learned by the agents deviate significantly from the Nash equilibrium of the corresponding market impact game. Notably, the learned strategies exhibit tacit collusion, closely aligning with the Pareto-optimal solution. We further explore how different levels of market volatility influence the agents' performance and the equilibria they discover, including scenarios where volatility differs between the training and testing phases.





## Bayesian Optimization Framework for Efficient Fleet Design in Autonomous Multi-Robot Exploration
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.11751v1
- **Authors**: ['David Molina Concha', 'Jiping Li', 'Haoran Yin', 'Kyeonghyeon Park', 'Hyun-Rok Lee', 'Taesik Lee', 'Dhruv Sirohi', 'Chi-Guhn Lee']
- **Abstrat**: This study addresses the challenge of fleet design optimization in the context of heterogeneous multi-robot fleets, aiming to obtain feasible designs that balance performance and costs. In the domain of autonomous multi-robot exploration, reinforcement learning agents play a central role, offering adaptability to complex terrains and facilitating collaboration among robots. However, modifying the fleet composition results in changes in the learned behavior, and training multi-robot systems using multi-agent reinforcement learning is expensive. Therefore, an exhaustive evaluation of each potential fleet design is infeasible. To tackle these hurdles, we introduce Bayesian Optimization for Fleet Design (BOFD), a framework leveraging multi-objective Bayesian Optimization to explore fleets on the Pareto front of performance and cost while accounting for uncertainty in the design space. Moreover, we establish a sub-linear bound for cumulative regret, supporting BOFD's robustness and efficacy. Extensive benchmark experiments in synthetic and simulated environments demonstrate the superiority of our framework over state-of-the-art methods, achieving efficient fleet designs with minimal fleet evaluations.





## Deep Generative Models in Robotics: A Survey on Learning from Multimodal Demonstrations
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.04380v3
- **Authors**: ['Julen Urain', 'Ajay Mandlekar', 'Yilun Du', 'Mahi Shafiullah', 'Danfei Xu', 'Katerina Fragkiadaki', 'Georgia Chalvatzaki', 'Jan Peters']
- **Abstrat**: Learning from Demonstrations, the field that proposes to learn robot behavior models from data, is gaining popularity with the emergence of deep generative models. Although the problem has been studied for years under names such as Imitation Learning, Behavioral Cloning, or Inverse Reinforcement Learning, classical methods have relied on models that don't capture complex data distributions well or don't scale well to large numbers of demonstrations. In recent years, the robot learning community has shown increasing interest in using deep generative models to capture the complexity of large datasets. In this survey, we aim to provide a unified and comprehensive review of the last year's progress in the use of deep generative models in robotics. We present the different types of models that the community has explored, such as energy-based models, diffusion models, action value maps, or generative adversarial networks. We also present the different types of applications in which deep generative models have been used, from grasp generation to trajectory generation or cost learning. One of the most important elements of generative models is the generalization out of distributions. In our survey, we review the different decisions the community has made to improve the generalization of the learned models. Finally, we highlight the research challenges and propose a number of future directions for learning deep generative models in robotics.





## Proximal Policy Optimization with Graph Neural Networks for Optimal Power Flow
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2212.12470v2
- **Authors**: ['Ángela López-Cardona', 'Guillermo Bernárdez', 'Pere Barlet-Ros', 'Albert Cabellos-Aparicio']
- **Abstrat**: Optimal Power Flow (OPF) is a very traditional research area within the power systems field that seeks for the optimal operation point of electric power plants, and which needs to be solved every few minutes in real-world scenarios. However, due to the nonconvexities that arise in power generation systems, there is not yet a fast, robust solution technique for the full Alternating Current Optimal Power Flow (ACOPF). In the last decades, power grids have evolved into a typical dynamic, non-linear and large-scale control system, known as the power system, so searching for better and faster ACOPF solutions is becoming crucial. Appearance of Graph Neural Networks (GNN) has allowed the natural use of Machine Learning (ML) algorithms on graph data, such as power networks. On the other hand, Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) is known for its powerful capability to solve complex decision-making problems. Although solutions that use these two methods separately are beginning to appear in the literature, none has yet combined the advantages of both. We propose a novel architecture based on the Proximal Policy Optimization algorithm with Graph Neural Networks to solve the Optimal Power Flow. The objective is to design an architecture that learns how to solve the optimization problem and that is at the same time able to generalize to unseen scenarios. We compare our solution with the DCOPF in terms of cost after having trained our DRL agent on IEEE 30 bus system and then computing the OPF on that base network with topology changes





## Optimizing Interpretable Decision Tree Policies for Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.11632v1
- **Authors**: ['Daniël Vos', 'Sicco Verwer']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning techniques leveraging deep learning have made tremendous progress in recent years. However, the complexity of neural networks prevents practitioners from understanding their behavior. Decision trees have gained increased attention in supervised learning for their inherent interpretability, enabling modelers to understand the exact prediction process after learning. This paper considers the problem of optimizing interpretable decision tree policies to replace neural networks in reinforcement learning settings. Previous works have relaxed the tree structure, restricted to optimizing only tree leaves, or applied imitation learning techniques to approximately copy the behavior of a neural network policy with a decision tree. We propose the Decision Tree Policy Optimization (DTPO) algorithm that directly optimizes the complete decision tree using policy gradients. Our technique uses established decision tree heuristics for regression to perform policy optimization. We empirically show that DTPO is a competitive algorithm compared to imitation learning algorithms for optimizing decision tree policies in reinforcement learning.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning