# reinforcement learning
## UniGraspTransformer: Simplified Policy Distillation for Scalable Dexterous Robotic Grasping
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02699v1
- **Authors**: ['Wenbo Wang', 'Fangyun Wei', 'Lei Zhou', 'Xi Chen', 'Lin Luo', 'Xiaohan Yi', 'Yizhong Zhang', 'Yaobo Liang', 'Chang Xu', 'Yan Lu', 'Jiaolong Yang', 'Baining Guo']
- **Abstrat**: We introduce UniGraspTransformer, a universal Transformer-based network for dexterous robotic grasping that simplifies training while enhancing scalability and performance. Unlike prior methods such as UniDexGrasp++, which require complex, multi-step training pipelines, UniGraspTransformer follows a streamlined process: first, dedicated policy networks are trained for individual objects using reinforcement learning to generate successful grasp trajectories; then, these trajectories are distilled into a single, universal network. Our approach enables UniGraspTransformer to scale effectively, incorporating up to 12 self-attention blocks for handling thousands of objects with diverse poses. Additionally, it generalizes well to both idealized and real-world inputs, evaluated in state-based and vision-based settings. Notably, UniGraspTransformer generates a broader range of grasping poses for objects in various shapes and orientations, resulting in more diverse grasp strategies. Experimental results demonstrate significant improvements over state-of-the-art, UniDexGrasp++, across various object categories, achieving success rate gains of 3.5%, 7.7%, and 10.1% on seen objects, unseen objects within seen categories, and completely unseen objects, respectively, in the vision-based setting. Project page: https://dexhand.github.io/UniGraspTransformer.





## T-REG: Preference Optimization with Token-Level Reward Regularization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02685v1
- **Authors**: ['Wenxuan Zhou', 'Shujian Zhang', 'Lingxiao Zhao', 'Tao Meng']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) has been crucial in aligning large language models (LLMs) with human values. Traditionally, RLHF involves generating responses to a query and using a reward model to assign a reward to the entire response. However, this approach faces challenges due to its reliance on a single, sparse reward, which makes it challenging for the model to identify which parts of the sequence contribute most significantly to the final reward. Recent methods have attempted to address this limitation by introducing token-level rewards. However, these methods often rely on either a trained credit assignment model or AI annotators, raising concerns about the quality and reliability of the rewards. In this paper, we propose token-level reward regularization (T-REG), a novel approach that leverages both sequence-level and token-level rewards for preference optimization. Harnessing the self-refinement capabilities of LLMs, our method uses contrastive prompting to enable LLMs to self-generate token-level rewards. These self-generated rewards then act as reward regularization, guiding the model to more effectively distribute sequence-level rewards across tokens. This facilitates better token-level credit assignment and enhances alignment performance. Experiments on the instruction following benchmarks, including Alpaca Eval 2 and Arena-Hard, show that our method consistently outperforms baseline methods by up to 3.8% and 4.4%, respectively. We will release the code and models at https://github.com/wzhouad/T-REG.





## Accelerating Proximal Policy Optimization Learning Using Task Prediction for Solving Environments with Delayed Rewards
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17861v2
- **Authors**: ['Ahmad Ahmad', 'Mehdi Kermanshah', 'Kevin Leahy', 'Zachary Serlin', 'Ho Chit Siu', 'Makai Mann', 'Cristian-Ioan Vasile', 'Roberto Tron', 'Calin Belta']
- **Abstrat**: In this paper, we tackle the challenging problem of delayed rewards in reinforcement learning (RL). While Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) has emerged as a leading Policy Gradient method, its performance can degrade under delayed rewards. We introduce two key enhancements to PPO: a hybrid policy architecture that combines an offline policy (trained on expert demonstrations) with an online PPO policy, and a reward shaping mechanism using Time Window Temporal Logic (TWTL). The hybrid architecture leverages offline data throughout training while maintaining PPO's theoretical guarantees. Building on the monotonic improvement framework of Trust Region Policy Optimization (TRPO), we prove that our approach ensures improvement over both the offline policy and previous iterations, with a bounded performance gap of $(2\varsigma\gamma\alpha^2)/(1-\gamma)^2$, where $\alpha$ is the mixing parameter, $\gamma$ is the discount factor, and $\varsigma$ bounds the expected advantage. Additionally, we prove that our TWTL-based reward shaping preserves the optimal policy of the original problem. TWTL enables formal translation of temporal objectives into immediate feedback signals that guide learning. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach through extensive experiments on an inverted pendulum and a lunar lander environments, showing improvements in both learning speed and final performance compared to standard PPO and offline-only approaches.





## A Fast Convergence Theory for Offline Decision Making
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.01378v2
- **Authors**: ['Chenjie Mao', 'Qiaosheng Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: This paper proposes the first generic fast convergence result in general function approximation for offline decision making problems, which include offline reinforcement learning (RL) and off-policy evaluation (OPE) as special cases. To unify different settings, we introduce a framework called Decision Making with Offline Feedback (DMOF), which captures a wide range of offline decision making problems. Within this framework, we propose a simple yet powerful algorithm called Empirical Decision with Divergence (EDD), whose upper bound can be termed as a coefficient named Empirical Offline Estimation Coefficient (EOEC). We show that EOEC is instance-dependent and actually measures the correlation of the problem. When assuming partial coverage in the dataset, EOEC will reduce in a rate of $1/N$ where $N$ is the size of the dataset, endowing EDD with a fast convergence guarantee. Finally, we complement the above results with a lower bound in the DMOF framework, which further demonstrates the soundness of our theory.





## AI-Driven Resource Allocation Framework for Microservices in Hybrid Cloud Platforms
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02610v1
- **Authors**: ['Biman Barua', 'M. Shamim Kaiser']
- **Abstrat**: The increasing demand for scalable, efficient resource management in hybrid cloud environments has led to the exploration of AI-driven approaches for dynamic resource allocation. This paper presents an AI-driven framework for resource allocation among microservices in hybrid cloud platforms. The framework employs reinforcement learning (RL)-based resource utilization optimization to reduce costs and improve performance. The framework integrates AI models with cloud management tools to respond to challenges of dynamic scaling and cost-efficient low-latency service delivery. The reinforcement learning model continuously adjusts provisioned resources as required by the microservices and predicts the future consumption trends to minimize both under- and over-provisioning of resources. Preliminary simulation results indicate that using AI in the provision of resources related to costs can reduce expenditure by up to 30-40% compared to manual provisioning and threshold-based auto-scaling approaches. It is also estimated that the efficiency in resource utilization is expected to improve by 20%-30% with a corresponding latency cut of 15%-20% during the peak demand periods. This study compares the AI-driven approach with existing static and rule-based resource allocation methods, demonstrating the capability of this new model to outperform them in terms of flexibility and real-time interests. The results indicate that reinforcement learning can make optimization of hybrid cloud platforms even better, offering a 25-35% improvement in cost efficiency and the power of scaling for microservice-based applications. The proposed framework is a strong and scalable solution to managing cloud resources in dynamic and performance-critical environments.





## BPP-Search: Enhancing Tree of Thought Reasoning for Mathematical Modeling Problem Solving
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17404v2
- **Authors**: ['Teng Wang', 'Wing-Yin Yu', 'Zhenqi He', 'Zehua Liu', 'Xiongwei Han', 'Hailei Gong', 'Han Wu', 'Wei Shi', 'Ruifeng She', 'Fangzhou Zhu', 'Tao Zhong']
- **Abstrat**: LLMs exhibit advanced reasoning capabilities, offering the potential to transform natural language questions into mathematical models. However, existing open-source datasets in operations research domain lack detailed annotations of the modeling process, such as variable definitions, focusing solely on objective values, which hinders reinforcement learning applications. To address this, we release the StructuredOR dataset, annotated with comprehensive labels that capture the complete mathematical modeling process. We further propose BPP-Search, a algorithm that integrates reinforcement learning into a tree-of-thought structure using Beam search, a Process reward model, and a pairwise Preference algorithm. This approach enables efficient exploration of tree structures, avoiding exhaustive search while improving accuracy. Extensive experiments on StructuredOR, NL4OPT, and MAMO-ComplexLP datasets show that BPP-Search significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods. In tree-based reasoning, BPP-Search excels in accuracy and efficiency, enabling faster retrieval of correct solutions.





## Filtered Direct Preference Optimization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.13846v4
- **Authors**: ['Tetsuro Morimura', 'Mitsuki Sakamoto', 'Yuu Jinnai', 'Kenshi Abe', 'Kaito Ariu']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) plays a crucial role in aligning language models with human preferences. While the significance of dataset quality is generally recognized, explicit investigations into its impact within the RLHF framework, to our knowledge, have been limited. This paper addresses the issue of text quality within the preference dataset by focusing on direct preference optimization (DPO), an increasingly adopted reward-model-free RLHF method. We confirm that text quality significantly influences the performance of models optimized with DPO more than those optimized with reward-model-based RLHF. Building on this new insight, we propose an extension of DPO, termed filtered direct preference optimization (fDPO). fDPO uses a trained reward model to monitor the quality of texts within the preference dataset during DPO training. Samples of lower quality are discarded based on comparisons with texts generated by the model being optimized, resulting in a more accurate dataset. Experimental results demonstrate that fDPO enhances the final model performance. Our code is available at https://github.com/CyberAgentAILab/filtered-dpo.





## Explainable CTR Prediction via LLM Reasoning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02588v1
- **Authors**: ['Xiaohan Yu', 'Li Zhang', 'Chong Chen']
- **Abstrat**: Recommendation Systems have become integral to modern user experiences, but lack transparency in their decision-making processes. Existing explainable recommendation methods are hindered by reliance on a post-hoc paradigm, wherein explanation generators are trained independently of the underlying recommender models. This paradigm necessitates substantial human effort in data construction and raises concerns about explanation reliability. In this paper, we present ExpCTR, a novel framework that integrates large language model based explanation generation directly into the CTR prediction process. Inspired by recent advances in reinforcement learning, we employ two carefully designed reward mechanisms, LC alignment, which ensures explanations reflect user intentions, and IC alignment, which maintains consistency with traditional ID-based CTR models. Our approach incorporates an efficient training paradigm with LoRA and a three-stage iterative process. ExpCTR circumvents the need for extensive explanation datasets while fostering synergy between CTR prediction and explanation generation. Experimental results demonstrate that ExpCTR significantly enhances both recommendation accuracy and interpretability across three real-world datasets.





## Mobile Cell-Free Massive MIMO with Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning: A Scalable Framework
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02581v1
- **Authors**: ['Ziheng Liu', 'Jiayi Zhang', 'Yiyang Zhu', 'Enyu Shi', 'Bo Ai']
- **Abstrat**: Cell-free massive multiple-input multiple-output (mMIMO) offers significant advantages in mobility scenarios, mainly due to the elimination of cell boundaries and strong macro diversity. In this paper, we examine the downlink performance of cell-free mMIMO systems equipped with mobile-APs utilizing the concept of unmanned aerial vehicles, where mobility and power control are jointly considered to effectively enhance coverage and suppress interference. However, the high computational complexity, poor collaboration, limited scalability, and uneven reward distribution of conventional optimization schemes lead to serious performance degradation and instability. These factors complicate the provision of consistent and high-quality service across all user equipments in downlink cell-free mMIMO systems. Consequently, we propose a novel scalable framework enhanced by multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) to tackle these challenges. The established framework incorporates a graph neural network (GNN)-aided communication mechanism to facilitate effective collaboration among agents, a permutation architecture to improve scalability, and a directional decoupling architecture to accurately distinguish contributions. In the numerical results, we present comparisons of different optimization schemes and network architectures, which reveal that the proposed scheme can effectively enhance system performance compared to conventional schemes due to the adoption of advanced technologies. In particular, appropriately compressing the observation space of agents is beneficial for achieving a better balance between performance and convergence.





## Generating Critical Scenarios for Testing Automated Driving Systems
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02574v1
- **Authors**: ['Trung-Hieu Nguyen', 'Truong-Giang Vuong', 'Hong-Nam Duong', 'Son Nguyen', 'Hieu Dinh Vo', 'Toshiaki Aoki', 'Thu-Trang Nguyen']
- **Abstrat**: Autonomous vehicles (AVs) have demonstrated significant potential in revolutionizing transportation, yet ensuring their safety and reliability remains a critical challenge, especially when exposed to dynamic and unpredictable environments. Real-world testing of an Autonomous Driving System (ADS) is both expensive and risky, making simulation-based testing a preferred approach. In this paper, we propose AVASTRA, a Reinforcement Learning (RL)-based approach to generate realistic critical scenarios for testing ADSs in simulation environments. To capture the complexity of driving scenarios, AVASTRA comprehensively represents the environment by both the internal states of an ADS under-test (e.g., the status of the ADS's core components, speed, or acceleration) and the external states of the surrounding factors in the simulation environment (e.g., weather, traffic flow, or road condition). AVASTRA trains the RL agent to effectively configure the simulation environment that places the AV in dangerous situations and potentially leads it to collisions. We introduce a diverse set of actions that allows the RL agent to systematically configure both environmental conditions and traffic participants. Additionally, based on established safety requirements, we enforce heuristic constraints to ensure the realism and relevance of the generated test scenarios. AVASTRA is evaluated on two popular simulation maps with four different road configurations. Our results show AVASTRA's ability to outperform the state-of-the-art approach by generating 30% to 115% more collision scenarios. Compared to the baseline based on Random Search, AVASTRA achieves up to 275% better performance. These results highlight the effectiveness of AVASTRA in enhancing the safety testing of AVs through realistic comprehensive critical scenario generation.





## WebRL: Training LLM Web Agents via Self-Evolving Online Curriculum Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02337v2
- **Authors**: ['Zehan Qi', 'Xiao Liu', 'Iat Long Iong', 'Hanyu Lai', 'Xueqiao Sun', 'Wenyi Zhao', 'Yu Yang', 'Xinyue Yang', 'Jiadai Sun', 'Shuntian Yao', 'Tianjie Zhang', 'Wei Xu', 'Jie Tang', 'Yuxiao Dong']
- **Abstrat**: Large language models (LLMs) have shown remarkable potential as autonomous agents, particularly in web-based tasks. However, existing LLM web agents heavily rely on expensive proprietary LLM APIs, while open LLMs lack the necessary decision-making capabilities. This paper introduces WebRL, a self-evolving online curriculum reinforcement learning framework designed to train high-performance web agents using open LLMs. WebRL addresses three key challenges in building LLM web agents, including the scarcity of training tasks, sparse feedback signals, and policy distribution drift in online learning. Specifically, WebRL incorporates 1) a self-evolving curriculum that generates new tasks from unsuccessful attempts, 2) a robust outcome-supervised reward model (ORM), and 3) adaptive reinforcement learning strategies to ensure consistent improvements. We apply WebRL to transform open Llama-3.1 and GLM-4 models into proficient web agents. On WebArena-Lite, WebRL improves the success rate of Llama-3.1-8B from 4.8% to 42.4%, and from 6.1% to 43% for GLM-4-9B. These open models significantly surpass the performance of GPT-4-Turbo (17.6%) and GPT-4o (13.9%) and outperform previous state-of-the-art web agents trained on open LLMs (AutoWebGLM, 18.2%). Our findings demonstrate WebRL's effectiveness in bridging the gap between open and proprietary LLM-based web agents, paving the way for more accessible and powerful autonomous web interaction systems.





## Burning RED: Unlocking Subtask-Driven Reinforcement Learning and Risk-Awareness in Average-Reward Markov Decision Processes
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.10578v5
- **Authors**: ['Juan Sebastian Rojas', 'Chi-Guhn Lee']
- **Abstrat**: Average-reward Markov decision processes (MDPs) provide a foundational framework for sequential decision-making under uncertainty. However, average-reward MDPs have remained largely unexplored in reinforcement learning (RL) settings, with the majority of RL-based efforts having been allocated to episodic and discounted MDPs. In this work, we study a unique structural property of average-reward MDPs and utilize it to introduce Reward-Extended Differential (or RED) reinforcement learning: a novel RL framework that can be used to effectively and efficiently solve various subtasks simultaneously in the average-reward setting. We introduce a family of RED learning algorithms for prediction and control, including proven-convergent algorithms for the tabular case. We then showcase the power of these algorithms by demonstrating how they can be used to learn a policy that optimizes, for the first time, the well-known conditional value-at-risk (CVaR) risk measure in a fully-online manner, without the use of an explicit bi-level optimization scheme or an augmented state-space.





## Introduction to Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.07712v3
- **Authors**: ['Majid Ghasemi', 'Dariush Ebrahimi']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement Learning (RL), a subfield of Artificial Intelligence (AI), focuses on training agents to make decisions by interacting with their environment to maximize cumulative rewards. This paper provides an overview of RL, covering its core concepts, methodologies, and resources for further learning. It offers a thorough explanation of fundamental components such as states, actions, policies, and reward signals, ensuring readers develop a solid foundational understanding. Additionally, the paper presents a variety of RL algorithms, categorized based on the key factors such as model-free, model-based, value-based, policy-based, and other key factors. Resources for learning and implementing RL, such as books, courses, and online communities are also provided. By offering a clear, structured introduction, this paper aims to simplify the complexities of RL for beginners, providing a straightforward pathway to understanding.





## Cooperative Cruising: Reinforcement Learning based Time-Headway Control for Increased Traffic Efficiency
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02520v1
- **Authors**: ['Yaron Veksler', 'Sharon Hornstein', 'Han Wang', 'Maria Laura Delle Monache', 'Daniel Urieli']
- **Abstrat**: The proliferation of Connected Automated Vehicles represents an unprecedented opportunity for improving driving efficiency and alleviating traffic congestion. However, existing research fails to address realistic multi-lane highway scenarios without assuming connectivity, perception, and control capabilities that are typically unavailable in current vehicles. This paper proposes a novel AI system that is the first to improve highway traffic efficiency compared with human-like traffic in realistic, simulated multi-lane scenarios, while relying on existing connectivity, perception, and control capabilities. At the core of our approach is a reinforcement learning based controller that dynamically communicates time-headways to automated vehicles near bottlenecks based on real-time traffic conditions. These desired time-headways are then used by Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) systems to adjust their following distance. By (i) integrating existing traffic estimation technology and low-bandwidth vehicle-to-infrastructure connectivity, (ii) leveraging safety-certified ACC systems, and (iii) targeting localized bottleneck challenges that can be addressed independently in different locations, we propose a practical, safe, and scalable system that can positively impact numerous road users.





## Model-aware reinforcement learning for high-performance Bayesian experimental design in quantum metrology
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.16985v3
- **Authors**: ['Federico Belliardo', 'Fabio Zoratti', 'Florian Marquardt', 'Vittorio Giovannetti']
- **Abstrat**: Quantum sensors offer control flexibility during estimation by allowing manipulation by the experimenter across various parameters. For each sensing platform, pinpointing the optimal controls to enhance the sensor's precision remains a challenging task. While an analytical solution might be out of reach, machine learning offers a promising avenue for many systems of interest, especially given the capabilities of contemporary hardware. We have introduced a versatile procedure capable of optimizing a wide range of problems in quantum metrology, estimation, and hypothesis testing by combining model-aware reinforcement learning (RL) with Bayesian estimation based on particle filtering. To achieve this, we had to address the challenge of incorporating the many non-differentiable steps of the estimation in the training process, such as measurements and the resampling of the particle filter. Model-aware RL is a gradient-based method, where the derivatives of the sensor's precision are obtained through automatic differentiation (AD) in the simulation of the experiment. Our approach is suitable for optimizing both non-adaptive and adaptive strategies, using neural networks or other agents. We provide an implementation of this technique in the form of a Python library called qsensoropt, alongside several pre-made applications for relevant physical platforms, namely NV centers, photonic circuits, and optical cavities. This library will be released soon on PyPI. Leveraging our method, we've achieved results for many examples that surpass the current state-of-the-art in experimental design. In addition to Bayesian estimation, leveraging model-aware RL, it is also possible to find optimal controls for the minimization of the Cram\'er-Rao bound, based on Fisher information.





## Reinforcement learning to learn quantum states for Heisenberg scaling accuracy
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02334v1
- **Authors**: ['Jeongwoo Jae', 'Jeonghoon Hong', 'Jinho Choo', 'Yeong-Dae Kwon']
- **Abstrat**: Learning quantum states is a crucial task for realizing the potential of quantum information technology. Recently, neural approaches have emerged as promising methods for learning quantum states. We propose a meta-learning model that employs reinforcement learning (RL) to optimize the process of learning quantum states. For learning quantum states, our scheme trains a Hardware efficient ansatz with a blackbox optimization algorithm, called evolution strategy (ES). To enhance the efficiency of ES, a RL agent dynamically adjusts the hyperparameters of ES. To facilitate the RL training, we introduce an action repetition strategy inspired by curriculum learning. The RL agent significantly improves the sample efficiency of learning random quantum states, and achieves infidelity scaling close to the Heisenberg limit. We showcase that the RL agent trained using 3-qubit states can be generalized to learning up to 5-qubit states. These results highlight the utility of RL-driven meta-learning to enhance the efficiency and generalizability of learning quantum states. Our approach can be applicable to improve quantum control, quantum optimization, and quantum machine learning.





## Optimizing Plastic Waste Collection in Water Bodies Using Heterogeneous Autonomous Surface Vehicles with Deep Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02316v1
- **Authors**: ['Alejandro Mendoza Barrionuevo', 'Samuel Yanes Luis', 'Daniel Gutiérrez Reina', 'Sergio L. Toral Marín']
- **Abstrat**: This paper presents a model-free deep reinforcement learning framework for informative path planning with heterogeneous fleets of autonomous surface vehicles to locate and collect plastic waste. The system employs two teams of vehicles: scouts and cleaners. Coordination between these teams is achieved through a deep reinforcement approach, allowing agents to learn strategies to maximize cleaning efficiency. The primary objective is for the scout team to provide an up-to-date contamination model, while the cleaner team collects as much waste as possible following this model. This strategy leads to heterogeneous teams that optimize fleet efficiency through inter-team cooperation supported by a tailored reward function. Different trainings of the proposed algorithm are compared with other state-of-the-art heuristics in two distinct scenarios, one with high convexity and another with narrow corridors and challenging access. According to the obtained results, it is demonstrated that deep reinforcement learning based algorithms outperform other benchmark heuristics, exhibiting superior adaptability. In addition, training with greedy actions further enhances performance, particularly in scenarios with intricate layouts.





## Conformal Symplectic Optimization for Stable Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02291v1
- **Authors**: ['Yao Lyu', 'Xiangteng Zhang', 'Shengbo Eben Li', 'Jingliang Duan', 'Letian Tao', 'Qing Xu', 'Lei He', 'Keqiang Li']
- **Abstrat**: Training deep reinforcement learning (RL) agents necessitates overcoming the highly unstable nonconvex stochastic optimization inherent in the trial-and-error mechanism. To tackle this challenge, we propose a physics-inspired optimization algorithm called relativistic adaptive gradient descent (RAD), which enhances long-term training stability. By conceptualizing neural network (NN) training as the evolution of a conformal Hamiltonian system, we present a universal framework for transferring long-term stability from conformal symplectic integrators to iterative NN updating rules, where the choice of kinetic energy governs the dynamical properties of resulting optimization algorithms. By utilizing relativistic kinetic energy, RAD incorporates principles from special relativity and limits parameter updates below a finite speed, effectively mitigating abnormal gradient influences. Additionally, RAD models NN optimization as the evolution of a multi-particle system where each trainable parameter acts as an independent particle with an individual adaptive learning rate. We prove RAD's sublinear convergence under general nonconvex settings, where smaller gradient variance and larger batch sizes contribute to tighter convergence. Notably, RAD degrades to the well-known adaptive moment estimation (ADAM) algorithm when its speed coefficient is chosen as one and symplectic factor as a small positive value. Experimental results show RAD outperforming nine baseline optimizers with five RL algorithms across twelve environments, including standard benchmarks and challenging scenarios. Notably, RAD achieves up to a 155.1% performance improvement over ADAM in Atari games, showcasing its efficacy in stabilizing and accelerating RL training.





## Feudal Graph Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2304.05099v6
- **Authors**: ['Tommaso Marzi', 'Arshjot Khehra', 'Andrea Cini', 'Cesare Alippi']
- **Abstrat**: Graph-based representations and message-passing modular policies constitute prominent approaches to tackling composable control problems in reinforcement learning (RL). However, as shown by recent graph deep learning literature, such local message-passing operators can create information bottlenecks and hinder global coordination. The issue becomes more serious in tasks requiring high-level planning. In this work, we propose a novel methodology, named Feudal Graph Reinforcement Learning (FGRL), that addresses such challenges by relying on hierarchical RL and a pyramidal message-passing architecture. In particular, FGRL defines a hierarchy of policies where high-level commands are propagated from the top of the hierarchy down through a layered graph structure. The bottom layers mimic the morphology of the physical system, while the upper layers correspond to higher-order sub-modules. The resulting agents are then characterized by a committee of policies where actions at a certain level set goals for the level below, thus implementing a hierarchical decision-making structure that can naturally implement task decomposition. We evaluate the proposed framework on a graph clustering problem and MuJoCo locomotion tasks; simulation results show that FGRL compares favorably against relevant baselines. Furthermore, an in-depth analysis of the command propagation mechanism provides evidence that the introduced message-passing scheme favors learning hierarchical decision-making policies.





## Step-by-Step Guidance to Differential Anemia Diagnosis with Real-World Data and Deep Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02273v1
- **Authors**: ['Lillian Muyama', 'Estelle Lu', 'Geoffrey Cheminet', 'Jacques Pouchot', 'Bastien Rance', 'Anne-Isabelle Tropeano', 'Antoine Neuraz', 'Adrien Coulet']
- **Abstrat**: Clinical diagnostic guidelines outline the key questions to answer to reach a diagnosis. Inspired by guidelines, we aim to develop a model that learns from electronic health records to determine the optimal sequence of actions for accurate diagnosis. Focusing on anemia and its sub-types, we employ deep reinforcement learning (DRL) algorithms and evaluate their performance on both a synthetic dataset, which is based on expert-defined diagnostic pathways, and a real-world dataset. We investigate the performance of these algorithms across various scenarios. Our experimental results demonstrate that DRL algorithms perform competitively with state-of-the-art methods while offering the significant advantage of progressively generating pathways to the suggested diagnosis, providing a transparent decision-making process that can guide and explain diagnostic reasoning.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## LLM-Enhanced Path Planning: Safe and Efficient Autonomous Navigation with Instructional Inputs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02655v1
- **Authors**: ['Pranav Doma', 'Aliasghar Arab', 'Xuesu Xiao']
- **Abstrat**: Autonomous navigation guided by natural language instructions is essential for improving human-robot interaction and enabling complex operations in dynamic environments. While large language models (LLMs) are not inherently designed for planning, they can significantly enhance planning efficiency by providing guidance and informing constraints to ensure safety. This paper introduces a planning framework that integrates LLMs with 2D occupancy grid maps and natural language commands to improve spatial reasoning and task execution in resource-limited settings. By decomposing high-level commands and real-time environmental data, the system generates structured navigation plans for pick-and-place tasks, including obstacle avoidance, goal prioritization, and adaptive behaviors. The framework dynamically recalculates paths to address environmental changes and aligns with implicit social norms for seamless human-robot interaction. Our results demonstrates the potential of LLMs to design context-aware system to enhance navigation efficiency and safety in industrial and dynamic environments.





## Optimizing Plastic Waste Collection in Water Bodies Using Heterogeneous Autonomous Surface Vehicles with Deep Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02316v1
- **Authors**: ['Alejandro Mendoza Barrionuevo', 'Samuel Yanes Luis', 'Daniel Gutiérrez Reina', 'Sergio L. Toral Marín']
- **Abstrat**: This paper presents a model-free deep reinforcement learning framework for informative path planning with heterogeneous fleets of autonomous surface vehicles to locate and collect plastic waste. The system employs two teams of vehicles: scouts and cleaners. Coordination between these teams is achieved through a deep reinforcement approach, allowing agents to learn strategies to maximize cleaning efficiency. The primary objective is for the scout team to provide an up-to-date contamination model, while the cleaner team collects as much waste as possible following this model. This strategy leads to heterogeneous teams that optimize fleet efficiency through inter-team cooperation supported by a tailored reward function. Different trainings of the proposed algorithm are compared with other state-of-the-art heuristics in two distinct scenarios, one with high convexity and another with narrow corridors and challenging access. According to the obtained results, it is demonstrated that deep reinforcement learning based algorithms outperform other benchmark heuristics, exhibiting superior adaptability. In addition, training with greedy actions further enhances performance, particularly in scenarios with intricate layouts.





## Multi-robot autonomous 3D reconstruction using Gaussian splatting with Semantic guidance
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02249v1
- **Authors**: ['Jing Zeng', 'Qi Ye', 'Tianle Liu', 'Yang Xu', 'Jin Li', 'Jinming Xu', 'Liang Li', 'Jiming Chen']
- **Abstrat**: Implicit neural representations and 3D Gaussian splatting (3DGS) have shown great potential for scene reconstruction. Recent studies have expanded their applications in autonomous reconstruction through task assignment methods. However, these methods are mainly limited to single robot, and rapid reconstruction of large-scale scenes remains challenging. Additionally, task-driven planning based on surface uncertainty is prone to being trapped in local optima. To this end, we propose the first 3DGS-based centralized multi-robot autonomous 3D reconstruction framework. To further reduce time cost of task generation and improve reconstruction quality, we integrate online open-vocabulary semantic segmentation with surface uncertainty of 3DGS, focusing view sampling on regions with high instance uncertainty. Finally, we develop a multi-robot collaboration strategy with mode and task assignments improving reconstruction quality while ensuring planning efficiency. Our method demonstrates the highest reconstruction quality among all planning methods and superior planning efficiency compared to existing multi-robot methods. We deploy our method on multiple robots, and results show that it can effectively plan view paths and reconstruct scenes with high quality.




