# reinforcement learning
## Best-of-Venom: Attacking RLHF by Injecting Poisoned Preference Data
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.05530v2
- **Authors**: ['Tim Baumgärtner', 'Yang Gao', 'Dana Alon', 'Donald Metzler']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) is a popular method for aligning Language Models (LM) with human values and preferences. RLHF requires a large number of preference pairs as training data, which are often used in both the Supervised Fine-Tuning and Reward Model training and therefore publicly available datasets are commonly used. In this work, we study to what extent a malicious actor can manipulate the LMs generations by poisoning the preferences, i.e., injecting poisonous preference pairs into these datasets and the RLHF training process. We propose strategies to build poisonous preference pairs and test their performance by poisoning two widely used preference datasets. Our results show that preference poisoning is highly effective: injecting a small amount of poisonous data (1-5\% of the original dataset), we can effectively manipulate the LM to generate a target entity in a target sentiment (positive or negative). The findings from our experiments also shed light on strategies to defend against the preference poisoning attack.





## Hummer: Towards Limited Competitive Preference Dataset
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.11647v3
- **Authors**: ['Li Jiang', 'Yusen Wu', 'Junwu Xiong', 'Jingqing Ruan', 'Yichuan Ding', 'Qingpei Guo', 'Zujie Wen', 'Jun Zhou', 'Xiaotie Deng']
- **Abstrat**: Preference datasets are essential for incorporating human preferences into pre-trained language models, playing a key role in the success of Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback. However, these datasets often demonstrate conflicting alignment objectives, leading to increased vulnerability to jailbreak attacks and challenges in adapting downstream tasks to prioritize specific alignment objectives without negatively impacting others. In this work, we introduce a novel statistical metric, Alignment Dimension Conflict, to quantify the degree of conflict within preference datasets. We then present \texttt{Hummer} and its fine-grained variant, \texttt{Hummer-F}, as innovative pairwise preference datasets with reduced-conflict alignment objectives. \texttt{Hummer} is built based on UltraFeedback and is enhanced by AI feedback from GPT-4, marking as the first preference dataset aimed at reducing the competition between alignment objectives. Furthermore, we develop reward models, HummerRM and HummerRM-F, which employ a hybrid sampling approach to balance diverse alignment objectives effectively. This sampling method positions HummerRM as an ideal model for domain-specific further fine-tuning and reducing vulnerabilities to attacks.





## Adversarial Safety-Critical Scenario Generation using Naturalistic Human Driving Priors
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03200v1
- **Authors**: ['Kunkun Hao', 'Yonggang Luo', 'Wen Cui', 'Yuqiao Bai', 'Jucheng Yang', 'Songyang Yan', 'Yuxi Pan', 'Zijiang Yang']
- **Abstrat**: Evaluating the decision-making system is indispensable in developing autonomous vehicles, while realistic and challenging safety-critical test scenarios play a crucial role. Obtaining these scenarios is non-trivial, thanks to the long-tailed distribution, sparsity, and rarity in real-world data sets. To tackle this problem, in this paper, we introduce a natural adversarial scenario generation solution using naturalistic human driving priors and reinforcement learning techniques. By doing this, we can obtain large-scale test scenarios that are both diverse and realistic. Specifically, we build a simulation environment that mimics natural traffic interaction scenarios. Informed by this environment, we implement a two-stage procedure. The first stage incorporates conventional rule-based models, e.g., IDM~(Intelligent Driver Model) and MOBIL~(Minimizing Overall Braking Induced by Lane changes) model, to coarsely and discretely capture and calibrate key control parameters from the real-world dataset. Next, we leverage GAIL~(Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning) to represent driver behaviors continuously. The derived GAIL can be further used to design a PPO~(Proximal Policy Optimization)-based actor-critic network framework to fine-tune the reward function, and then optimizes our natural adversarial scenario generation solution. Extensive experiments have been conducted in the NGSIM dataset including the trajectory of 3,000 vehicles. Essential traffic parameters were measured in comparison with the baseline model, e.g., the collision rate, accelerations, steering, and the number of lane changes. Our findings demonstrate that the proposed model can generate realistic safety-critical test scenarios covering both naturalness and adversariality, which can be a cornerstone for the development of autonomous vehicles.





## RELIEF: Reinforcement Learning Empowered Graph Feature Prompt Tuning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03195v1
- **Authors**: ['Jiapeng Zhu', 'Zichen Ding', 'Jianxiang Yu', 'Jiaqi Tan', 'Xiang Li', 'Weining Qian']
- **Abstrat**: The advent of the "pre-train, prompt" paradigm has recently extended its generalization ability and data efficiency to graph representation learning, following its achievements in Natural Language Processing (NLP). Initial graph prompt tuning approaches tailored specialized prompting functions for Graph Neural Network (GNN) models pre-trained with specific strategies, such as edge prediction, thus limiting their applicability. In contrast, another pioneering line of research has explored universal prompting via adding prompts to the input graph's feature space, thereby removing the reliance on specific pre-training strategies. However, the necessity to add feature prompts to all nodes remains an open question. Motivated by findings from prompt tuning research in the NLP domain, which suggest that highly capable pre-trained models need less conditioning signal to achieve desired behaviors, we advocate for strategically incorporating necessary and lightweight feature prompts to certain graph nodes to enhance downstream task performance. This introduces a combinatorial optimization problem, requiring a policy to decide 1) which nodes to prompt and 2) what specific feature prompts to attach. We then address the problem by framing the prompt incorporation process as a sequential decision-making problem and propose our method, RELIEF, which employs Reinforcement Learning (RL) to optimize it. At each step, the RL agent selects a node (discrete action) and determines the prompt content (continuous action), aiming to maximize cumulative performance gain. Extensive experiments on graph and node-level tasks with various pre-training strategies in few-shot scenarios demonstrate that our RELIEF outperforms fine-tuning and other prompt-based approaches in classification performance and data efficiency.





## Integrated Intention Prediction and Decision-Making with Spectrum Attention Net and Proximal Policy Optimization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03191v1
- **Authors**: ['Xiao Zhou', 'Chengzhen Meng', 'Wenru Liu', 'Zengqi Peng', 'Ming Liu', 'Jun Ma']
- **Abstrat**: For autonomous driving in highly dynamic environments, it is anticipated to predict the future behaviors of surrounding vehicles (SVs) and make safe and effective decisions. However, modeling the inherent coupling effect between the prediction and decision-making modules has been a long-standing challenge, especially when there is a need to maintain appropriate computational efficiency. To tackle these problems, we propose a novel integrated intention prediction and decision-making approach, which explicitly models the coupling relationship and achieves efficient computation. Specifically, a spectrum attention net is designed to predict the intentions of SVs by capturing the trends of each frequency component over time and their interrelations. Fast computation of the intention prediction module is attained as the predicted intentions are not decoded to trajectories in the executing process. Furthermore, the proximal policy optimization (PPO) algorithm is employed to address the non-stationary problem in the framework through a modest policy update enabled by a clipping mechanism within its objective function. On the basis of these developments, the intention prediction and decision-making modules are integrated through joint learning. Experiments are conducted in representative traffic scenarios, and the results reveal that the proposed integrated framework demonstrates superior performance over several deep reinforcement learning (DRL) baselines in terms of success rate, efficiency, and safety in driving tasks.





## CADRL: Category-aware Dual-agent Reinforcement Learning for Explainable Recommendations over Knowledge Graphs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03166v1
- **Authors**: ['Shangfei Zheng', 'Hongzhi Yin', 'Tong Chen', 'Xiangjie Kong', 'Jian Hou', 'Pengpeng Zhao']
- **Abstrat**: Knowledge graphs (KGs) have been widely adopted to mitigate data sparsity and address cold-start issues in recommender systems. While existing KGs-based recommendation methods can predict user preferences and demands, they fall short in generating explicit recommendation paths and lack explainability. As a step beyond the above methods, recent advancements utilize reinforcement learning (RL) to find suitable items for a given user via explainable recommendation paths. However, the performance of these solutions is still limited by the following two points. (1) Lack of ability to capture contextual dependencies from neighboring information. (2) The excessive reliance on short recommendation paths due to efficiency concerns. To surmount these challenges, we propose a category-aware dual-agent reinforcement learning (CADRL) model for explainable recommendations over KGs. Specifically, our model comprises two components: (1) a category-aware gated graph neural network that jointly captures context-aware item representations from neighboring entities and categories, and (2) a dual-agent RL framework where two agents efficiently traverse long paths to search for suitable items. Finally, experimental results show that CADRL outperforms state-of-the-art models in terms of both effectiveness and efficiency on large-scale datasets.





## Closing the gap between SVRG and TD-SVRG with Gradient Splitting
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2211.16237v4
- **Authors**: ['Arsenii Mustafin', 'Alex Olshevsky', 'Ioannis Ch. Paschalidis']
- **Abstrat**: Temporal difference (TD) learning is a policy evaluation in reinforcement learning whose performance can be enhanced by variance reduction methods. Recently, multiple works have sought to fuse TD learning with Stochastic Variance Reduced Gradient (SVRG) method to achieve a geometric rate of convergence. However, the resulting convergence rate is significantly weaker than what is achieved by SVRG in the setting of convex optimization. In this work we utilize a recent interpretation of TD-learning as the splitting of the gradient of an appropriately chosen function, thus simplifying the algorithm and fusing TD with SVRG. Our main result is a geometric convergence bound with predetermined learning rate of $1/8$, which is identical to the convergence bound available for SVRG in the convex setting. Our theoretical findings are supported by a set of experiments.





## QADQN: Quantum Attention Deep Q-Network for Financial Market Prediction
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03088v1
- **Authors**: ['Siddhant Dutta', 'Nouhaila Innan', 'Alberto Marchisio', 'Sadok Ben Yahia', 'Muhammad Shafique']
- **Abstrat**: Financial market prediction and optimal trading strategy development remain challenging due to market complexity and volatility. Our research in quantum finance and reinforcement learning for decision-making demonstrates the approach of quantum-classical hybrid algorithms to tackling real-world financial challenges. In this respect, we corroborate the concept with rigorous backtesting and validate the framework's performance under realistic market conditions, by including fixed transaction cost per trade. This paper introduces a Quantum Attention Deep Q-Network (QADQN) approach to address these challenges through quantum-enhanced reinforcement learning. Our QADQN architecture uses a variational quantum circuit inside a traditional deep Q-learning framework to take advantage of possible quantum advantages in decision-making. We gauge the QADQN agent's performance on historical data from major market indices, including the S&P 500. We evaluate the agent's learning process by examining its reward accumulation and the effectiveness of its experience replay mechanism. Our empirical results demonstrate the QADQN's superior performance, achieving better risk-adjusted returns with Sortino ratios of 1.28 and 1.19 for non-overlapping and overlapping test periods respectively, indicating effective downside risk management.





## Research on Autonomous Driving Decision-making Strategies based Deep Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03084v1
- **Authors**: ['Zixiang Wang', 'Hao Yan', 'Changsong Wei', 'Junyu Wang', 'Shi Bo', 'Minheng Xiao']
- **Abstrat**: The behavior decision-making subsystem is a key component of the autonomous driving system, which reflects the decision-making ability of the vehicle and the driver, and is an important symbol of the high-level intelligence of the vehicle. However, the existing rule-based decision-making schemes are limited by the prior knowledge of designers, and it is difficult to cope with complex and changeable traffic scenarios. In this work, an advanced deep reinforcement learning model is adopted, which can autonomously learn and optimize driving strategies in a complex and changeable traffic environment by modeling the driving decision-making process as a reinforcement learning problem. Specifically, we used Deep Q-Network (DQN) and Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) for comparative experiments. DQN guides the agent to choose the best action by approximating the state-action value function, while PPO improves the decision-making quality by optimizing the policy function. We also introduce improvements in the design of the reward function to promote the robustness and adaptability of the model in real-world driving situations. Experimental results show that the decision-making strategy based on deep reinforcement learning has better performance than the traditional rule-based method in a variety of driving tasks.





## Model-free optimal controller for discrete-time Markovian jump linear systems: A Q-learning approach
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03077v1
- **Authors**: ['Ehsan Badfar', 'Babak Tavassoli']
- **Abstrat**: This research paper introduces a model-free optimal controller for discrete-time Markovian jump linear systems (MJLSs), employing principles from the methodology of reinforcement learning (RL). While Q-learning methods have demonstrated efficacy in determining optimal controller gains for deterministic systems, their application to systems with Markovian switching remains unexplored. To address this research gap, we propose a Q-function involving the Markovian mode. Subsequently, a Q-learning algorithm is proposed to learn the unknown kernel matrix using raw input-state information from the system. Notably, the study proves the convergence of the proposed Q-learning optimal controller gains to the model-based optimal controller gains after proving the convergence of a value iteration algorithm as the first step. Addition of excitation noise to input which is required to ensure the leaning performance does not lead to any bias. Unlike the conventional optimal controller, the proposed method does not require any knowledge on system dynamics and eliminates the need for solving coupled algebraic Riccati equations arising in optimal control of MJLSs. Finally, the efficiency of the proposed method is demonstrated through a simulation study.





## Autoverse: An Evolvable Game Language for Learning Robust Embodied Agents
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.04221v2
- **Authors**: ['Sam Earle', 'Julian Togelius']
- **Abstrat**: We introduce Autoverse, an evolvable, domain-specific language for single-player 2D grid-based games, and demonstrate its use as a scalable training ground for Open-Ended Learning (OEL) algorithms. Autoverse uses cellular-automaton-like rewrite rules to describe game mechanics, allowing it to express various game environments (e.g. mazes, dungeons, sokoban puzzles) that are popular testbeds for Reinforcement Learning (RL) agents. Each rewrite rule can be expressed as a series of simple convolutions, allowing for environments to be parallelized on the GPU, thereby drastically accelerating RL training. Using Autoverse, we propose jump-starting open-ended learning by imitation learning from search. In such an approach, we first evolve Autoverse environments (their rules and initial map topology) to maximize the number of iterations required by greedy tree search to discover a new best solution, producing a curriculum of increasingly complex environments and playtraces. We then distill these expert playtraces into a neural-network-based policy using imitation learning. Finally, we use the learned policy as a starting point for open-ended RL, where new training environments are continually evolved to maximize the RL player agent's value function error (a proxy for its regret, or the learnability of generated environments), finding that this approach improves the performance and generality of resultant player agents.





## A Course in Dynamic Optimization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03034v1
- **Authors**: ['Bar Light']
- **Abstrat**: These lecture notes are derived from a graduate-level course in dynamic optimization, offering an introduction to techniques and models extensively used in management science, economics, operations research, engineering, and computer science. The course emphasizes the theoretical underpinnings of discrete-time dynamic programming models and advanced algorithmic strategies for solving these models. Unlike typical treatments, it provides a proof for the principle of optimality for upper semi-continuous dynamic programming, a middle ground between the simpler countable state space case \cite{bertsekas2012dynamic}, and the involved universally measurable case \cite{bertsekas1996stochastic}. This approach is sufficiently rigorous to include important examples such as dynamic pricing, consumption-savings, and inventory management models. The course also delves into the properties of value and policy functions, leveraging classical results \cite{topkis1998supermodularity} and recent developments. Additionally, it offers an introduction to reinforcement learning, including a formal proof of the convergence of Q-learning algorithms. Furthermore, the notes delve into policy gradient methods for the average reward case, presenting a convergence result for the tabular case in this context. This result is simple and similar to the discounted case but appears to be new.





## Highly Efficient Self-Adaptive Reward Shaping for Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03029v1
- **Authors**: ['Haozhe Ma', 'Zhengding Luo', 'Thanh Vinh Vo', 'Kuankuan Sima', 'Tze-Yun Leong']
- **Abstrat**: Reward shaping addresses the challenge of sparse rewards in reinforcement learning by constructing denser and more informative reward signals. To achieve self-adaptive and highly efficient reward shaping, we propose a novel method that incorporates success rates derived from historical experiences into shaped rewards. Our approach utilizes success rates sampled from Beta distributions, which dynamically evolve from uncertain to reliable values as more data is collected. Initially, the self-adaptive success rates exhibit more randomness to encourage exploration. Over time, they become more certain to enhance exploitation, thus achieving a better balance between exploration and exploitation. We employ Kernel Density Estimation (KDE) combined with Random Fourier Features (RFF) to derive the Beta distributions, resulting in a computationally efficient implementation in high-dimensional continuous state spaces. This method provides a non-parametric and learning-free approach. The proposed method is evaluated on a wide range of continuous control tasks with sparse and delayed rewards, demonstrating significant improvements in sample efficiency and convergence stability compared to several baselines.





## Integrating Controllable Motion Skills from Demonstrations
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03018v1
- **Authors**: ['Honghao Liao', 'Zhiheng Li', 'Ziyu Meng', 'Ran Song', 'Yibin Li', 'Wei Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: The expanding applications of legged robots require their mastery of versatile motion skills. Correspondingly, researchers must address the challenge of integrating multiple diverse motion skills into controllers. While existing reinforcement learning (RL)-based approaches have achieved notable success in multi-skill integration for legged robots, these methods often require intricate reward engineering or are restricted to integrating a predefined set of motion skills constrained by specific task objectives, resulting in limited flexibility. In this work, we introduce a flexible multi-skill integration framework named Controllable Skills Integration (CSI). CSI enables the integration of a diverse set of motion skills with varying styles into a single policy without the need for complex reward tuning. Furthermore, in a hierarchical control manner, the trained low-level policy can be coupled with a high-level Natural Language Inference (NLI) module to enable preliminary language-directed skill control. Our experiments demonstrate that CSI can flexibly integrate a diverse array of motion skills more comprehensively and facilitate the transitions between different skills. Additionally, CSI exhibits good scalability as the number of motion skills to be integrated increases significantly.





## Explaining Reinforcement Learning: A Counterfactual Shapley Values Approach
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.02529v2
- **Authors**: ['Yiwei Shi', 'Qi Zhang', 'Kevin McAreavey', 'Weiru Liu']
- **Abstrat**: This paper introduces a novel approach Counterfactual Shapley Values (CSV), which enhances explainability in reinforcement learning (RL) by integrating counterfactual analysis with Shapley Values. The approach aims to quantify and compare the contributions of different state dimensions to various action choices. To more accurately analyze these impacts, we introduce new characteristic value functions, the ``Counterfactual Difference Characteristic Value" and the ``Average Counterfactual Difference Characteristic Value." These functions help calculate the Shapley values to evaluate the differences in contributions between optimal and non-optimal actions. Experiments across several RL domains, such as GridWorld, FrozenLake, and Taxi, demonstrate the effectiveness of the CSV method. The results show that this method not only improves transparency in complex RL systems but also quantifies the differences across various decisions.





## Convergence of Batch Asynchronous Stochastic Approximation With Applications to Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2109.03445v6
- **Authors**: ['Rajeeva L. Karandikar', 'M. Vidyasagar']
- **Abstrat**: We begin by briefly surveying some results on the convergence of the Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) Method, proved in a companion paper by the present authors. These results are based on viewing SGD as a version of Stochastic Approximation (SA). Ever since its introduction in the classic paper of Robbins and Monro in 1951, SA has become a standard tool for finding a solution of an equation of the form $f(\theta) = 0$, when only noisy measurements of $f(\cdot)$ are available. In most situations, \textit{every component} of the putative solution $\theta_t$ is updated at each step $t$. In some applications in Reinforcement Learning (RL), \textit{only one component} of $\theta_t$ is updated at each $t$. This is known as \textbf{asynchronous} SA. In this paper, we study \textbf{Block Asynchronous SA (BASA)}, in which, at each step $t$, \textit{some but not necessarily all} components of $\theta_t$ are updated. The theory presented here embraces both conventional (synchronous) SA as well as asynchronous SA, and all in-between possibilities. We provide sufficient conditions for the convergence of BASA, and also prove bounds on the \textit{rate} of convergence of $\theta_t$ to the solution. For the case of conventional SGD, these results reduce to those proved in our companion paper. Then we apply these results to the problem of finding a fixed point of a map with only noisy measurements. This problem arises frequently in RL. We prove sufficient conditions for convergence as well as estimates for the rate of convergence.





## Empathy Level Alignment via Reinforcement Learning for Empathetic Response Generation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.02976v1
- **Authors**: ['Hui Ma', 'Bo Zhang', 'Bo Xu', 'Jian Wang', 'Hongfei Lin', 'Xiao Sun']
- **Abstrat**: Empathetic response generation, aiming at understanding the user's situation and feelings and respond empathically, is crucial in building human-like dialogue systems. Previous methods mainly focus on using maximum likelihood estimation as the optimization objective for training response generation models, without taking into account the empathy level alignment between generated responses and target responses. To this end, we propose an empathetic response generation using reinforcement learning (EmpRL) framework. The framework designs an effective empathy reward function and generates empathetic responses by maximizing the expected reward through reinforcement learning. Given the powerful text generation capability of pre-trained language models, EmpRL utilizes the pre-trained T5 model as the generator and conducts further training to initialize the policy. To align the empathy level between generated responses and target responses in the context, an empathy reward function containing three empathy communication mechanisms, i.e., emotional reaction, interpretation, and exploration, is constructed using pre-designed and pre-trained empathy identifiers. Finally, the proximal policy optimization algorithm is used to further train the policy to produce empathetic responses. Both automatic and manual evaluations demonstrate that the proposed EmpRL framework can improve the quality of generated responses, enhance the empathy level similarity between generated and target responses, and produce empathetic responses covering both affective and cognitive aspects.





## Reinforcement Learning based Workflow Scheduling in Cloud and Edge Computing Environments: A Taxonomy, Review and Future Directions
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.02938v1
- **Authors**: ['Amanda Jayanetti', 'Saman Halgamuge', 'Rajkumar Buyya']
- **Abstrat**: Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) techniques have been successfully applied for solving complex decision-making and control tasks in multiple fields including robotics, autonomous driving, healthcare and natural language processing. The ability of DRL agents to learn from experience and utilize real-time data for making decisions makes it an ideal candidate for dealing with the complexities associated with the problem of workflow scheduling in highly dynamic cloud and edge computing environments. Despite the benefits of DRL, there are multiple challenges associated with the application of DRL techniques including multi-objectivity, curse of dimensionality, partial observability and multi-agent coordination. In this paper, we comprehensively analyze the challenges and opportunities associated with the design and implementation of DRL oriented solutions for workflow scheduling in cloud and edge computing environments. Based on the identified characteristics, we propose a taxonomy of workflow scheduling with DRL. We map reviewed works with respect to the taxonomy to identify their strengths and weaknesses. Based on taxonomy driven analysis, we propose novel future research directions for the field.





## A Deep Reinforcement Learning Approach for Cost Optimized Workflow Scheduling in Cloud Computing Environments
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.02926v1
- **Authors**: ['Amanda Jayanetti', 'Saman Halgamuge', 'Rajkumar Buyya']
- **Abstrat**: Cost optimization is a common goal of workflow schedulers operating in cloud computing environments. The use of spot instances is a potential means of achieving this goal, as they are offered by cloud providers at discounted prices compared to their on-demand counterparts in exchange for reduced reliability. This is due to the fact that spot instances are subjected to interruptions when spare computing capacity used for provisioning them is needed back owing to demand variations. Also, the prices of spot instances are not fixed as pricing is dependent on long term supply and demand. The possibility of interruptions and pricing variations associated with spot instances adds a layer of uncertainty to the general problem of workflow scheduling across cloud computing environments. These challenges need to be efficiently addressed for enjoying the cost savings achievable with the use of spot instances without compromising the underlying business requirements. To this end, in this paper we use Deep Reinforcement Learning for developing an autonomous agent capable of scheduling workflows in a cost efficient manner by using an intelligent mix of spot and on-demand instances. The proposed solution is implemented in the open source container native Argo workflow engine that is widely used for executing industrial workflows. The results of the experiments demonstrate that the proposed scheduling method is capable of outperforming the current benchmarks.





## Reinforcement Learning with Generalizable Gaussian Splatting
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.07950v3
- **Authors**: ['Jiaxu Wang', 'Qiang Zhang', 'Jingkai Sun', 'Jiahang Cao', 'Gang Han', 'Wen Zhao', 'Weining Zhang', 'Yecheng Shao', 'Yijie Guo', 'Renjing Xu']
- **Abstrat**: An excellent representation is crucial for reinforcement learning (RL) performance, especially in vision-based reinforcement learning tasks. The quality of the environment representation directly influences the achievement of the learning task. Previous vision-based RL typically uses explicit or implicit ways to represent environments, such as images, points, voxels, and neural radiance fields. However, these representations contain several drawbacks. They cannot either describe complex local geometries or generalize well to unseen scenes, or require precise foreground masks. Moreover, these implicit neural representations are akin to a ``black box", significantly hindering interpretability. 3D Gaussian Splatting (3DGS), with its explicit scene representation and differentiable rendering nature, is considered a revolutionary change for reconstruction and representation methods. In this paper, we propose a novel Generalizable Gaussian Splatting framework to be the representation of RL tasks, called GSRL. Through validation in the RoboMimic environment, our method achieves better results than other baselines in multiple tasks, improving the performance by 10%, 44%, and 15% compared with baselines on the hardest task. This work is the first attempt to leverage generalizable 3DGS as a representation for RL.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning