# reinforcement learning
## Reinforcement Learning without Human Feedback for Last Mile Fine-Tuning of Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16753v1
- **Authors**: ['Alec Solway']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning is used to align language models with human preference signals after first pre-training the model to predict the next token of text within a large corpus using likelihood maximization. Before being deployed in a specific domain, models are often further fine-tuned on task specific data. Since human preferences are often unavailable for the last step, it is performed using likelihood maximization as that is the typical default method. However, reinforcement learning has other advantages besides facilitating alignment to a human derived reward function. For one, whereas likelihood maximization is a form of imitation learning in which the model is trained on what to do under ideal conditions, reinforcement learning is not limited to demonstrating actions just for optimally reached states and trains a model what to do under a range of scenarios as it explores the policy space. In addition, it also trains a model what not to do, suppressing competitive but poor actions. This work develops a framework for last-mile fine-tuning using reinforcement learning and tests whether it garners performance gains. The experiments center on abstractive summarization, but the framework is general and broadly applicable. Use of the procedure produced significantly better results than likelihood maximization when comparing raw predictions. For the specific data tested, the gap could be bridged by employing post-processing of the maximum likelihood outputs. Nonetheless, the framework offers a new avenue for model optimization in situations where post-processing may be less straightforward or effective, and it can be extended to include more complex classes of undesirable outputs to penalize and train against, such as hallucinations.





## Smart Helper-Aided F-RANs: Improving Delay and Reducing Fronthaul Load
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2309.07975v2
- **Authors**: ['Hesameddin Mokhtarzadeh', 'Mohammed S. Al-Abiad', 'Md Jahangir Hossain', 'Julian Cheng']
- **Abstrat**: In traditional Fog-Radio Access Networks (F-RANs), enhanced remote radio heads (eRRHs) are connected to a macro base station (MBS) through fronthaul links. Deploying a massive number of eRRHs is not always feasible due to site constraints and the cost of fronthaul links. This paper introduces an innovative concept of using smart helpers (SHs) in F-RANs. These SHs do not require fronthaul links and listen to the nearby eRRHs' communications. Then, they smartly select and cache popular content. This capability enables SHs to serve users with frequent on-demand service requests potentially. As such, network operators have the flexibility to easily deploy SHs in various scenarios, such as dense urban areas and temporary public events, to expand their F-RANs and improve the quality of service (QoS). To study the performance of the proposed SH-aided F-RAN, we formulate an optimization problem of minimizing the average transmission delay that jointly optimizes cache resources and user scheduling. To tackle the formulated problem, we develop an innovative multi-stage algorithm that uses a reinforcement learning (RL) framework. Various performance measures, e.g., the average transmission delay, fronthaul load, and cache hit rate of the proposed SH-aided F-RAN are evaluated numerically and compared with those of traditional F-RANs.





## A GREAT Architecture for Edge-Based Graph Problems Like TSP
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16717v1
- **Authors**: ['Attila Lischka', 'Jiaming Wu', 'Morteza Haghir Chehreghani', 'Balázs Kulcsár']
- **Abstrat**: In the last years, many neural network-based approaches have been proposed to tackle combinatorial optimization problems such as routing problems. Many of these approaches are based on graph neural networks (GNNs) or related transformers, operating on the Euclidean coordinates representing the routing problems. However, GNNs are inherently not well suited to operate on dense graphs, such as in routing problems. Furthermore, models operating on Euclidean coordinates cannot be applied to non-Euclidean versions of routing problems that are often found in real-world settings. To overcome these limitations, we propose a novel GNN-related edge-based neural model called Graph Edge Attention Network (GREAT). We evaluate the performance of GREAT in the edge-classification task to predict optimal edges in the Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP). We can use such a trained GREAT model to produce sparse TSP graph instances, keeping only the edges GREAT finds promising. Compared to other, non-learning-based methods to sparsify TSP graphs, GREAT can produce very sparse graphs while keeping most of the optimal edges. Furthermore, we build a reinforcement learning-based GREAT framework which we apply to Euclidean and non-Euclidean asymmetric TSP. This framework achieves state-of-the-art results.





## Misam: Using ML in Dataflow Selection of Sparse-Sparse Matrix Multiplication
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10166v2
- **Authors**: ['Sanjali Yadav', 'Bahar Asgari']
- **Abstrat**: Sparse matrix-matrix multiplication (SpGEMM) is a critical operation in numerous fields, including scientific computing, graph analytics, and deep learning. These applications exploit the sparsity of matrices to reduce storage and computational demands. However, the irregular structure of sparse matrices poses significant challenges for performance optimization. Traditional hardware accelerators are tailored for specific sparsity patterns with fixed dataflow schemes - inner, outer, and row-wise but often perform suboptimally when the actual sparsity deviates from these predetermined patterns. As the use of SpGEMM expands across various domains, each with distinct sparsity characteristics, the demand for hardware accelerators that can efficiently handle a range of sparsity patterns is increasing. This paper presents a machine learning based approach for adaptively selecting the most appropriate dataflow scheme for SpGEMM tasks with diverse sparsity patterns. By employing decision trees and deep reinforcement learning, we explore the potential of these techniques to surpass heuristic-based methods in identifying optimal dataflow schemes. We evaluate our models by comparing their performance with that of a heuristic, highlighting the strengths and weaknesses of each approach. Our findings suggest that using machine learning for dynamic dataflow selection in hardware accelerators can provide upto 28 times gains.





## RLCP: A Reinforcement Learning-based Copyright Protection Method for Text-to-Image Diffusion Model
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16634v1
- **Authors**: ['Zhuan Shi', 'Jing Yan', 'Xiaoli Tang', 'Lingjuan Lyu', 'Boi Faltings']
- **Abstrat**: The increasing sophistication of text-to-image generative models has led to complex challenges in defining and enforcing copyright infringement criteria and protection. Existing methods, such as watermarking and dataset deduplication, fail to provide comprehensive solutions due to the lack of standardized metrics and the inherent complexity of addressing copyright infringement in diffusion models. To deal with these challenges, we propose a Reinforcement Learning-based Copyright Protection(RLCP) method for Text-to-Image Diffusion Model, which minimizes the generation of copyright-infringing content while maintaining the quality of the model-generated dataset. Our approach begins with the introduction of a novel copyright metric grounded in copyright law and court precedents on infringement. We then utilize the Denoising Diffusion Policy Optimization (DDPO) framework to guide the model through a multi-step decision-making process, optimizing it using a reward function that incorporates our proposed copyright metric. Additionally, we employ KL divergence as a regularization term to mitigate some failure modes and stabilize RL fine-tuning. Experiments conducted on 3 mixed datasets of copyright and non-copyright images demonstrate that our approach significantly reduces copyright infringement risk while maintaining image quality.





## Optimizing Automated Picking Systems in Warehouse Robots Using Machine Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16633v1
- **Authors**: ['Keqin Li', 'Jin Wang', 'Xubo Wu', 'Xirui Peng', 'Runmian Chang', 'Xiaoyu Deng', 'Yiwen Kang', 'Yue Yang', 'Fanghao Ni', 'Bo Hong']
- **Abstrat**: With the rapid growth of global e-commerce, the demand for automation in the logistics industry is increasing. This study focuses on automated picking systems in warehouses, utilizing deep learning and reinforcement learning technologies to enhance picking efficiency and accuracy while reducing system failure rates. Through empirical analysis, we demonstrate the effectiveness of these technologies in improving robot picking performance and adaptability to complex environments. The results show that the integrated machine learning model significantly outperforms traditional methods, effectively addressing the challenges of peak order processing, reducing operational errors, and improving overall logistics efficiency. Additionally, by analyzing environmental factors, this study further optimizes system design to ensure efficient and stable operation under variable conditions. This research not only provides innovative solutions for logistics automation but also offers a theoretical and empirical foundation for future technological development and application.





## No Regrets: Investigating and Improving Regret Approximations for Curriculum Discovery
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.15099v2
- **Authors**: ['Alexander Rutherford', 'Michael Beukman', 'Timon Willi', 'Bruno Lacerda', 'Nick Hawes', 'Jakob Foerster']
- **Abstrat**: What data or environments to use for training to improve downstream performance is a longstanding and very topical question in reinforcement learning. In particular, Unsupervised Environment Design (UED) methods have gained recent attention as their adaptive curricula enable agents to be robust to in- and out-of-distribution tasks. We ask to what extent these methods are themselves robust when applied to a novel setting, closely inspired by a real-world robotics problem. Surprisingly, we find that the state-of-the-art UED methods either do not improve upon the na\"{i}ve baseline of Domain Randomisation (DR), or require substantial hyperparameter tuning to do so. Our analysis shows that this is due to their underlying scoring functions failing to predict intuitive measures of ``learnability'', i.e., in finding the settings that the agent sometimes solves, but not always. Based on this, we instead directly train on levels with high learnability and find that this simple and intuitive approach outperforms UED methods and DR in several binary-outcome environments, including on our domain and the standard UED domain of Minigrid. We further introduce a new adversarial evaluation procedure for directly measuring robustness, closely mirroring the conditional value at risk (CVaR). We open-source all our code and present visualisations of final policies here: https://github.com/amacrutherford/sampling-for-learnability.





## Inverse-Q*: Token Level Reinforcement Learning for Aligning Large Language Models Without Preference Data
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.14874v2
- **Authors**: ['Han Xia', 'Songyang Gao', 'Qiming Ge', 'Zhiheng Xi', 'Qi Zhang', 'Xuanjing Huang']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) has proven effective in aligning large language models with human intentions, yet it often relies on complex methodologies like Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) that require extensive hyper-parameter tuning and present challenges in sample efficiency and stability. In this paper, we introduce Inverse-Q*, an innovative framework that transcends traditional RL methods by optimizing token-level reinforcement learning without the need for additional reward or value models. Inverse-Q* leverages direct preference optimization techniques but extends them by estimating the conditionally optimal policy directly from the model's responses, facilitating more granular and flexible policy shaping. Our approach reduces reliance on human annotation and external supervision, making it especially suitable for low-resource settings. We present extensive experimental results demonstrating that Inverse-Q* not only matches but potentially exceeds the effectiveness of PPO in terms of convergence speed and the alignment of model responses with human preferences. Our findings suggest that Inverse-Q* offers a practical and robust alternative to conventional RLHF approaches, paving the way for more efficient and adaptable model training approaches.





## Neuromorphic force-control in an industrial task: validating energy and latency benefits
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.08928v2
- **Authors**: ['Camilo Amaya', 'Evan Eames', 'Gintautas Palinauskas', 'Alexander Perzylo', 'Yulia Sandamirskaya', 'Axel von Arnim']
- **Abstrat**: As robots become smarter and more ubiquitous, optimizing the power consumption of intelligent compute becomes imperative towards ensuring the sustainability of technological advancements. Neuromorphic computing hardware makes use of biologically inspired neural architectures to achieve energy and latency improvements compared to conventional von Neumann computing architecture. Applying these benefits to robots has been demonstrated in several works in the field of neurorobotics, typically on relatively simple control tasks. Here, we introduce an example of neuromorphic computing applied to the real-world industrial task of object insertion. We trained a spiking neural network (SNN) to perform force-torque feedback control using a reinforcement learning approach in simulation. We then ported the SNN to the Intel neuromorphic research chip Loihi interfaced with a KUKA robotic arm. At inference time we show latency competitive with current CPU/GPU architectures, and one order of magnitude less energy usage in comparison to state-of-the-art low-energy edge-hardware. We offer this example as a proof of concept implementation of a neuromoprhic controller in real-world robotic setting, highlighting the benefits of neuromorphic hardware for the development of intelligent controllers for robots.





## Learning a Shape-Conditioned Agent for Purely Tactile In-Hand Manipulation of Various Objects
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.18834v2
- **Authors**: ['Johannes Pitz', 'Lennart Röstel', 'Leon Sievers', 'Darius Burschka', 'Berthold Bäuml']
- **Abstrat**: Reorienting diverse objects with a multi-fingered hand is a challenging task. Current methods in robotic in-hand manipulation are either object-specific or require permanent supervision of the object state from visual sensors. This is far from human capabilities and from what is needed in real-world applications. In this work, we address this gap by training shape-conditioned agents to reorient diverse objects in hand, relying purely on tactile feedback (via torque and position measurements of the fingers' joints). To achieve this, we propose a learning framework that exploits shape information in a reinforcement learning policy and a learned state estimator. We find that representing 3D shapes by vectors from a fixed set of basis points to the shape's surface, transformed by its predicted 3D pose, is especially helpful for learning dexterous in-hand manipulation. In simulation and real-world experiments, we show the reorientation of many objects with high success rates, on par with state-of-the-art results obtained with specialized single-object agents. Moreover, we show generalization to novel objects, achieving success rates of $\sim$90% even for non-convex shapes.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning