# reinforcement learning
## A Comparative Study of Deep Reinforcement Learning for Crop Production Management
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04106v1
- **Authors**: ['Joseph Balderas', 'Dong Chen', 'Yanbo Huang', 'Li Wang', 'Ren-Cang Li']
- **Abstrat**: Crop production management is essential for optimizing yield and minimizing a field's environmental impact to crop fields, yet it remains challenging due to the complex and stochastic processes involved. Recently, researchers have turned to machine learning to address these complexities. Specifically, reinforcement learning (RL), a cutting-edge approach designed to learn optimal decision-making strategies through trial and error in dynamic environments, has emerged as a promising tool for developing adaptive crop management policies. RL models aim to optimize long-term rewards by continuously interacting with the environment, making them well-suited for tackling the uncertainties and variability inherent in crop management. Studies have shown that RL can generate crop management policies that compete with, and even outperform, expert-designed policies within simulation-based crop models. In the gym-DSSAT crop model environment, one of the most widely used simulators for crop management, proximal policy optimization (PPO) and deep Q-networks (DQN) have shown promising results. However, these methods have not yet been systematically evaluated under identical conditions. In this study, we evaluated PPO and DQN against static baseline policies across three different RL tasks, fertilization, irrigation, and mixed management, provided by the gym-DSSAT environment. To ensure a fair comparison, we used consistent default parameters, identical reward functions, and the same environment settings. Our results indicate that PPO outperforms DQN in fertilization and irrigation tasks, while DQN excels in the mixed management task. This comparative analysis provides critical insights into the strengths and limitations of each approach, advancing the development of more effective RL-based crop management strategies.





## Interpretable and Efficient Data-driven Discovery and Control of Distributed Systems
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04098v1
- **Authors**: ['Florian Wolf', 'Nicolò Botteghi', 'Urban Fasel', 'Andrea Manzoni']
- **Abstrat**: Effectively controlling systems governed by Partial Differential Equations (PDEs) is crucial in several fields of Applied Sciences and Engineering. These systems usually yield significant challenges to conventional control schemes due to their nonlinear dynamics, partial observability, high-dimensionality once discretized, distributed nature, and the requirement for low-latency feedback control. Reinforcement Learning (RL), particularly Deep RL (DRL), has recently emerged as a promising control paradigm for such systems, demonstrating exceptional capabilities in managing high-dimensional, nonlinear dynamics. However, DRL faces challenges including sample inefficiency, robustness issues, and an overall lack of interpretability. To address these issues, we propose a data-efficient, interpretable, and scalable Dyna-style Model-Based RL framework for PDE control, combining the Sparse Identification of Nonlinear Dynamics with Control (SINDy-C) algorithm and an autoencoder (AE) framework for the sake of dimensionality reduction of PDE states and actions. This novel approach enables fast rollouts, reducing the need for extensive environment interactions, and provides an interpretable latent space representation of the PDE forward dynamics. We validate our method on two PDE problems describing fluid flows - namely, the 1D Burgers equation and 2D Navier-Stokes equations - comparing it against a model-free baseline, and carrying out an extensive analysis of the learned dynamics.





## Teaching Models to Improve on Tape
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.01483v3
- **Authors**: ['Liat Bezalel', 'Eyal Orgad', 'Amir Globerson']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) often struggle when prompted to generate content under specific constraints. However, in such cases it is often easy to check whether these constraints are satisfied or violated. Recent works have shown that LLMs can benefit from such "corrective feedback". Here we claim that this skill of LLMs can be significantly enhanced via training. We introduce an RL framework for teaching models to use such rewards, by simulating interaction sessions, and rewarding the model according to its ability to satisfy the constraints. We refer to our method as CORGI (Controlled Generation with RL for Guided Interaction), and evaluate it on a variety of controlled generation tasks using unlabeled training data. We find that CORGI consistently outperforms the baseline reinforcement learning method that does not incorporate conversational feedback. Furthermore, CORGI's interactive framework enables meta-learning, allowing the LLM to generalize better to guided interaction in new tasks. Our results clearly show that conversational optimization, when combined with reinforcement learning, significantly improves the effectiveness of LLMs in controlled generation contexts.





## Demonstration of quantum projective simulation on a single-photon-based quantum computer
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.12729v2
- **Authors**: ['Giacomo Franceschetto', 'Arno Ricou']
- **Abstrat**: Variational quantum algorithms show potential in effectively operating on noisy intermediate-scale quantum devices. A novel variational approach to reinforcement learning has been recently proposed, incorporating linear-optical interferometers and a classical learning model known as projective simulation (PS). PS is a decision-making tool for reinforcement learning and can be classically represented as a random walk on a graph that describes the agent's memory. In its optical quantum version, this approach utilizes quantum walks of single photons on a mesh of tunable beamsplitters and phase shifters to select actions. In this work, we present the implementation of this algorithm on Ascella, a single-photon-based quantum computer from Quandela. The focus is drawn on solving a test bed task to showcase the potential of the quantum agent with respect to the classical agent.





## Non-Stationary Learning of Neural Networks with Automatic Soft Parameter Reset
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04034v1
- **Authors**: ['Alexandre Galashov', 'Michalis K. Titsias', 'András György', 'Clare Lyle', 'Razvan Pascanu', 'Yee Whye Teh', 'Maneesh Sahani']
- **Abstrat**: Neural networks are traditionally trained under the assumption that data come from a stationary distribution. However, settings which violate this assumption are becoming more popular; examples include supervised learning under distributional shifts, reinforcement learning, continual learning and non-stationary contextual bandits. In this work we introduce a novel learning approach that automatically models and adapts to non-stationarity, via an Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process with an adaptive drift parameter. The adaptive drift tends to draw the parameters towards the initialisation distribution, so the approach can be understood as a form of soft parameter reset. We show empirically that our approach performs well in non-stationary supervised and off-policy reinforcement learning settings.





## Predicting and Publishing Accurate Imbalance Prices Using Monte Carlo Tree Search
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04011v1
- **Authors**: ['Fabio Pavirani', 'Jonas Van Gompel', 'Seyed Soroush Karimi Madahi', 'Bert Claessens', 'Chris Develder']
- **Abstrat**: The growing reliance on renewable energy sources, particularly solar and wind, has introduced challenges due to their uncontrollable production. This complicates maintaining the electrical grid balance, prompting some transmission system operators in Western Europe to implement imbalance tariffs that penalize unsustainable power deviations. These tariffs create an implicit demand response framework to mitigate grid instability. Yet, several challenges limit active participation. In Belgium, for example, imbalance prices are only calculated at the end of each 15-minute settlement period, creating high risk due to price uncertainty. This risk is further amplified by the inherent volatility of imbalance prices, discouraging participation. Although transmission system operators provide minute-based price predictions, the system imbalance volatility makes accurate price predictions challenging to obtain and requires sophisticated techniques. Moreover, publishing price estimates can prompt participants to adjust their schedules, potentially affecting the system balance and the final price, adding further complexity. To address these challenges, we propose a Monte Carlo Tree Search method that publishes accurate imbalance prices while accounting for potential response actions. Our approach models the system dynamics using a neural network forecaster and a cluster of virtual batteries controlled by reinforcement learning agents. Compared to Belgium's current publication method, our technique improves price accuracy by 20.4% under ideal conditions and by 12.8% in more realistic scenarios. This research addresses an unexplored, yet crucial problem, positioning this paper as a pioneering work in analyzing the potential of more advanced imbalance price publishing techniques.





## Object-Centric Dexterous Manipulation from Human Motion Data
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04005v1
- **Authors**: ['Yuanpei Chen', 'Chen Wang', 'Yaodong Yang', 'C. Karen Liu']
- **Abstrat**: Manipulating objects to achieve desired goal states is a basic but important skill for dexterous manipulation. Human hand motions demonstrate proficient manipulation capability, providing valuable data for training robots with multi-finger hands. Despite this potential, substantial challenges arise due to the embodiment gap between human and robot hands. In this work, we introduce a hierarchical policy learning framework that uses human hand motion data for training object-centric dexterous robot manipulation. At the core of our method is a high-level trajectory generative model, learned with a large-scale human hand motion capture dataset, to synthesize human-like wrist motions conditioned on the desired object goal states. Guided by the generated wrist motions, deep reinforcement learning is further used to train a low-level finger controller that is grounded in the robot's embodiment to physically interact with the object to achieve the goal. Through extensive evaluation across 10 household objects, our approach not only demonstrates superior performance but also showcases generalization capability to novel object geometries and goal states. Furthermore, we transfer the learned policies from simulation to a real-world bimanual dexterous robot system, further demonstrating its applicability in real-world scenarios. Project website: https://cypypccpy.github.io/obj-dex.github.io/.





## Diversity Progress for Goal Selection in Discriminability-Motivated RL
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.01521v2
- **Authors**: ['Erik M. Lintunen', 'Nadia M. Ady', 'Christian Guckelsberger']
- **Abstrat**: Non-uniform goal selection has the potential to improve the reinforcement learning (RL) of skills over uniform-random selection. In this paper, we introduce a method for learning a goal-selection policy in intrinsically-motivated goal-conditioned RL: "Diversity Progress" (DP). The learner forms a curriculum based on observed improvement in discriminability over its set of goals. Our proposed method is applicable to the class of discriminability-motivated agents, where the intrinsic reward is computed as a function of the agent's certainty of following the true goal being pursued. This reward can motivate the agent to learn a set of diverse skills without extrinsic rewards. We demonstrate empirically that a DP-motivated agent can learn a set of distinguishable skills faster than previous approaches, and do so without suffering from a collapse of the goal distribution -- a known issue with some prior approaches. We end with plans to take this proof-of-concept forward.





## Robust Perception-Informed Navigation using PAC-NMPC with a Learned Value Function
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2309.13171v2
- **Authors**: ['Adam Polevoy', 'Mark Gonzales', 'Marin Kobilarov', 'Joseph Moore']
- **Abstrat**: Nonlinear model predictive control (NMPC) is typically restricted to short, finite horizons to limit the computational burden of online optimization. As a result, global planning frameworks are frequently necessary to avoid local minima when using NMPC for navigation in complex environments. By contrast, reinforcement learning (RL) can generate policies that minimize the expected cost over an infinite-horizon and can often avoid local minima, even when operating only on current sensor measurements. However, these learned policies are usually unable to provide performance guarantees (e.g., on collision avoidance), especially when outside of the training distribution. In this paper, we augment Probably Approximately Correct NMPC (PAC-NMPC), a sampling-based stochastic NMPC algorithm capable of providing statistical guarantees of performance and safety, with an approximate perception-dependent value function trained via RL. We demonstrate in simulation that our algorithm can improve the long-term behavior of PAC-NMPC while outperforming other approaches with regards to safety for both planar car dynamics and more complex, high-dimensional fixed-wing aerial vehicle dynamics. We also demonstrate that, even when our value function is trained in simulation, our algorithm can successfully achieve statistically safe navigation on hardware using a 1/10th scale rally car in cluttered real-world environments using only current sensor information.





## Policy Mirror Descent with Lookahead
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.14156v3
- **Authors**: ['Kimon Protopapas', 'Anas Barakat']
- **Abstrat**: Policy Mirror Descent (PMD) stands as a versatile algorithmic framework encompassing several seminal policy gradient algorithms such as natural policy gradient, with connections with state-of-the-art reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms such as TRPO and PPO. PMD can be seen as a soft Policy Iteration algorithm implementing regularized 1-step greedy policy improvement. However, 1-step greedy policies might not be the best choice and recent remarkable empirical successes in RL such as AlphaGo and AlphaZero have demonstrated that greedy approaches with respect to multiple steps outperform their 1-step counterpart. In this work, we propose a new class of PMD algorithms called $h$-PMD which incorporates multi-step greedy policy improvement with lookahead depth $h$ to the PMD update rule. To solve discounted infinite horizon Markov Decision Processes with discount factor $\gamma$, we show that $h$-PMD which generalizes the standard PMD enjoys a faster dimension-free $\gamma^h$-linear convergence rate, contingent on the computation of multi-step greedy policies. We propose an inexact version of $h$-PMD where lookahead action values are estimated. Under a generative model, we establish a sample complexity for $h$-PMD which improves over prior work. Finally, we extend our result to linear function approximation to scale to large state spaces. Under suitable assumptions, our sample complexity only involves dependence on the dimension of the feature map space instead of the state space size.





## Copyright-Aware Incentive Scheme for Generative Art Models Using Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.20180v2
- **Authors**: ['Zhuan Shi', 'Yifei Song', 'Xiaoli Tang', 'Lingjuan Lyu', 'Boi Faltings']
- **Abstrat**: Generative art using Diffusion models has achieved remarkable performance in image generation and text-to-image tasks. However, the increasing demand for training data in generative art raises significant concerns about copyright infringement, as models can produce images highly similar to copyrighted works. Existing solutions attempt to mitigate this by perturbing Diffusion models to reduce the likelihood of generating such images, but this often compromises model performance. Another approach focuses on economically compensating data holders for their contributions, yet it fails to address copyright loss adequately. Our approach begin with the introduction of a novel copyright metric grounded in copyright law and court precedents on infringement. We then employ the TRAK method to estimate the contribution of data holders. To accommodate the continuous data collection process, we divide the training into multiple rounds. Finally, We designed a hierarchical budget allocation method based on reinforcement learning to determine the budget for each round and the remuneration of the data holder based on the data holder's contribution and copyright loss in each round. Extensive experiments across three datasets show that our method outperforms all eight benchmarks, demonstrating its effectiveness in optimizing budget distribution in a copyright-aware manner. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first technical work that introduces to incentive contributors and protect their copyrights by compensating them.





## Skill-aware Mutual Information Optimisation for Generalisation in Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04815v3
- **Authors**: ['Xuehui Yu', 'Mhairi Dunion', 'Xin Li', 'Stefano V. Albrecht']
- **Abstrat**: Meta-Reinforcement Learning (Meta-RL) agents can struggle to operate across tasks with varying environmental features that require different optimal skills (i.e., different modes of behaviour). Using context encoders based on contrastive learning to enhance the generalisability of Meta-RL agents is now widely studied but faces challenges such as the requirement for a large sample size, also referred to as the $\log$-$K$ curse. To improve RL generalisation to different tasks, we first introduce Skill-aware Mutual Information (SaMI), an optimisation objective that aids in distinguishing context embeddings according to skills, thereby equipping RL agents with the ability to identify and execute different skills across tasks. We then propose Skill-aware Noise Contrastive Estimation (SaNCE), a $K$-sample estimator used to optimise the SaMI objective. We provide a framework for equipping an RL agent with SaNCE in practice and conduct experimental validation on modified MuJoCo and Panda-gym benchmarks. We empirically find that RL agents that learn by maximising SaMI achieve substantially improved zero-shot generalisation to unseen tasks. Additionally, the context encoder trained with SaNCE demonstrates greater robustness to a reduction in the number of available samples, thus possessing the potential to overcome the $\log$-$K$ curse.





## AdaSociety: An Adaptive Environment with Social Structures for Multi-Agent Decision-Making
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.03865v1
- **Authors**: ['Yizhe Huang', 'Xingbo Wang', 'Hao Liu', 'Fanqi Kong', 'Aoyang Qin', 'Min Tang', 'Xiaoxi Wang', 'Song-Chun Zhu', 'Mingjie Bi', 'Siyuan Qi', 'Xue Feng']
- **Abstrat**: Traditional interactive environments limit agents' intelligence growth with fixed tasks. Recently, single-agent environments address this by generating new tasks based on agent actions, enhancing task diversity. We consider the decision-making problem in multi-agent settings, where tasks are further influenced by social connections, affecting rewards and information access. However, existing multi-agent environments lack a combination of adaptive physical surroundings and social connections, hindering the learning of intelligent behaviors. To address this, we introduce AdaSociety, a customizable multi-agent environment featuring expanding state and action spaces, alongside explicit and alterable social structures. As agents progress, the environment adaptively generates new tasks with social structures for agents to undertake. In AdaSociety, we develop three mini-games showcasing distinct social structures and tasks. Initial results demonstrate that specific social structures can promote both individual and collective benefits, though current reinforcement learning and LLM-based algorithms show limited effectiveness in leveraging social structures to enhance performance. Overall, AdaSociety serves as a valuable research platform for exploring intelligence in diverse physical and social settings. The code is available at https://github.com/bigai-ai/AdaSociety.





## Beyond The Rainbow: High Performance Deep Reinforcement Learning On A Desktop PC
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.03820v1
- **Authors**: ['Tyler Clark', 'Mark Towers', 'Christine Evers', 'Jonathon Hare']
- **Abstrat**: Rainbow Deep Q-Network (DQN) demonstrated combining multiple independent enhancements could significantly boost a reinforcement learning (RL) agent's performance. In this paper, we present "Beyond The Rainbow" (BTR), a novel algorithm that integrates six improvements from across the RL literature to Rainbow DQN, establishing a new state-of-the-art for RL using a desktop PC, with a human-normalized interquartile mean (IQM) of 7.4 on atari-60. Beyond Atari, we demonstrate BTR's capability to handle complex 3D games, successfully training agents to play Super Mario Galaxy, Mario Kart, and Mortal Kombat with minimal algorithmic changes. Designing BTR with computational efficiency in mind, agents can be trained using a desktop PC on 200 million Atari frames within 12 hours. Additionally, we conduct detailed ablation studies of each component, analzying the performance and impact using numerous measures.





## From Novice to Expert: LLM Agent Policy Optimization via Step-wise Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.03817v1
- **Authors**: ['Zhirui Deng', 'Zhicheng Dou', 'Yutao Zhu', 'Ji-Rong Wen', 'Ruibin Xiong', 'Mang Wang', 'Weipeng Chen']
- **Abstrat**: The outstanding capabilities of large language models (LLMs) render them a crucial component in various autonomous agent systems. While traditional methods depend on the inherent knowledge of LLMs without fine-tuning, more recent approaches have shifted toward the reinforcement learning strategy to further enhance agents' ability to solve complex interactive tasks with environments and tools. However, previous approaches are constrained by the sparse reward issue, where existing datasets solely provide a final scalar reward for each multi-step reasoning chain, potentially leading to ineffectiveness and inefficiency in policy learning. In this paper, we introduce StepAgent, which utilizes step-wise reward to optimize the agent's reinforcement learning process. Inheriting the spirit of novice-to-expert theory, we first compare the actions of the expert and the agent to automatically generate intermediate rewards for fine-grained optimization. Additionally, we propose implicit-reward and inverse reinforcement learning techniques to facilitate agent reflection and policy adjustment. Further theoretical analysis demonstrates that the action distribution of the agent can converge toward the expert action distribution over multiple training cycles. Experimental results across various datasets indicate that StepAgent outperforms existing baseline methods.





## Safe Reinforcement Learning on the Constraint Manifold: Theory and Applications
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.09080v2
- **Authors**: ['Puze Liu', 'Haitham Bou-Ammar', 'Jan Peters', 'Davide Tateo']
- **Abstrat**: Integrating learning-based techniques, especially reinforcement learning, into robotics is promising for solving complex problems in unstructured environments. However, most existing approaches are trained in well-tuned simulators and subsequently deployed on real robots without online fine-tuning. In this setting, extensive engineering is required to mitigate the sim-to-real gap, which can be challenging for complex systems. Instead, learning with real-world interaction data offers a promising alternative: it not only eliminates the need for a fine-tuned simulator but also applies to a broader range of tasks where accurate modeling is unfeasible. One major problem for on-robot reinforcement learning is ensuring safety, as uncontrolled exploration can cause catastrophic damage to the robot or the environment. Indeed, safety specifications, often represented as constraints, can be complex and non-linear, making safety challenging to guarantee in learning systems. In this paper, we show how we can impose complex safety constraints on learning-based robotics systems in a principled manner, both from theoretical and practical points of view. Our approach is based on the concept of the Constraint Manifold, representing the set of safe robot configurations. Exploiting differential geometry techniques, i.e., the tangent space, we can construct a safe action space, allowing learning agents to sample arbitrary actions while ensuring safety. We demonstrate the method's effectiveness in a real-world Robot Air Hockey task, showing that our method can handle high-dimensional tasks with complex constraints. Videos of the real robot experiments are available on the project website (https://puzeliu.github.io/TRO-ATACOM).





## Hybrid Transfer Reinforcement Learning: Provable Sample Efficiency from Shifted-Dynamics Data
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.03810v1
- **Authors**: ['Chengrui Qu', 'Laixi Shi', 'Kishan Panaganti', 'Pengcheng You', 'Adam Wierman']
- **Abstrat**: Online Reinforcement learning (RL) typically requires high-stakes online interaction data to learn a policy for a target task. This prompts interest in leveraging historical data to improve sample efficiency. The historical data may come from outdated or related source environments with different dynamics. It remains unclear how to effectively use such data in the target task to provably enhance learning and sample efficiency. To address this, we propose a hybrid transfer RL (HTRL) setting, where an agent learns in a target environment while accessing offline data from a source environment with shifted dynamics. We show that -- without information on the dynamics shift -- general shifted-dynamics data, even with subtle shifts, does not reduce sample complexity in the target environment. However, with prior information on the degree of the dynamics shift, we design HySRL, a transfer algorithm that achieves problem-dependent sample complexity and outperforms pure online RL. Finally, our experimental results demonstrate that HySRL surpasses state-of-the-art online RL baseline.





## Getting By Goal Misgeneralization With a Little Help From a Mentor
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.21052v2
- **Authors**: ['Tu Trinh', 'Mohamad H. Danesh', 'Nguyen X. Khanh', 'Benjamin Plaut']
- **Abstrat**: While reinforcement learning (RL) agents often perform well during training, they can struggle with distribution shift in real-world deployments. One particularly severe risk of distribution shift is goal misgeneralization, where the agent learns a proxy goal that coincides with the true goal during training but not during deployment. In this paper, we explore whether allowing an agent to ask for help from a supervisor in unfamiliar situations can mitigate this issue. We focus on agents trained with PPO in the CoinRun environment, a setting known to exhibit goal misgeneralization. We evaluate multiple methods for determining when the agent should request help and find that asking for help consistently improves performance. However, we also find that methods based on the agent's internal state fail to proactively request help, instead waiting until mistakes have already occurred. Further investigation suggests that the agent's internal state does not represent the coin at all, highlighting the importance of learning nuanced representations, the risks of ignoring everything not immediately relevant to reward, and the necessity of developing ask-for-help strategies tailored to the agent's training algorithm.





## Human-in-the-Loop Feature Selection Using Interpretable Kolmogorov-Arnold Network-based Double Deep Q-Network
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.03740v1
- **Authors**: ['Md Abrar Jahin', 'M. F. Mridha', 'Nilanjan Dey']
- **Abstrat**: Feature selection is critical for improving the performance and interpretability of machine learning models, particularly in high-dimensional spaces where complex feature interactions can reduce accuracy and increase computational demands. Existing approaches often rely on static feature subsets or manual intervention, limiting adaptability and scalability. However, dynamic, per-instance feature selection methods and model-specific interpretability in reinforcement learning remain underexplored. This study proposes a human-in-the-loop (HITL) feature selection framework integrated into a Double Deep Q-Network (DDQN) using a Kolmogorov-Arnold Network (KAN). Our novel approach leverages simulated human feedback and stochastic distribution-based sampling, specifically Beta, to iteratively refine feature subsets per data instance, improving flexibility in feature selection. The KAN-DDQN achieved notable test accuracies of 93% on MNIST and 83% on FashionMNIST, outperforming conventional MLP-DDQN models by up to 9%. The KAN-based model provided high interpretability via symbolic representation while using 4 times fewer neurons in the hidden layer than MLPs did. Comparatively, the models without feature selection achieved test accuracies of only 58% on MNIST and 64% on FashionMNIST, highlighting significant gains with our framework. Pruning and visualization further enhanced model transparency by elucidating decision pathways. These findings present a scalable, interpretable solution for feature selection that is suitable for applications requiring real-time, adaptive decision-making with minimal human oversight.





## PropNEAT -- Efficient GPU-Compatible Backpropagation over NeuroEvolutionary Augmenting Topology Networks
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.03726v1
- **Authors**: ['Michael Merry', 'Patricia Riddle', 'Jim Warren']
- **Abstrat**: We introduce PropNEAT, a fast backpropagation implementation of NEAT that uses a bidirectional mapping of the genome graph to a layer-based architecture that preserves the NEAT genomes whilst enabling efficient GPU backpropagation. We test PropNEAT on 58 binary classification datasets from the Penn Machine Learning Benchmarks database, comparing the performance against logistic regression, dense neural networks and random forests, as well as a densely retrained variant of the final PropNEAT model. PropNEAT had the second best overall performance, behind Random Forest, though the difference between the models was not statistically significant apart from between Random Forest in comparison with logistic regression and the PropNEAT retrain models. PropNEAT was substantially faster than a naive backpropagation method, and both were substantially faster and had better performance than the original NEAT implementation. We demonstrate that the per-epoch training time for PropNEAT scales linearly with network depth, and is efficient on GPU implementations for backpropagation. This implementation could be extended to support reinforcement learning or convolutional networks, and is able to find sparser and smaller networks with potential for applications in low-power contexts.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Select2Plan: Training-Free ICL-Based Planning through VQA and Memory Retrieval
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04006v1
- **Authors**: ['Davide Buoso', 'Luke Robinson', 'Giuseppe Averta', 'Philip Torr', 'Tim Franzmeyer', 'Daniele De Martini']
- **Abstrat**: This study explores the potential of off-the-shelf Vision-Language Models (VLMs) for high-level robot planning in the context of autonomous navigation. Indeed, while most of existing learning-based approaches for path planning require extensive task-specific training/fine-tuning, we demonstrate how such training can be avoided for most practical cases. To do this, we introduce Select2Plan (S2P), a novel training-free framework for high-level robot planning which completely eliminates the need for fine-tuning or specialised training. By leveraging structured Visual Question-Answering (VQA) and In-Context Learning (ICL), our approach drastically reduces the need for data collection, requiring a fraction of the task-specific data typically used by trained models, or even relying only on online data. Our method facilitates the effective use of a generally trained VLM in a flexible and cost-efficient way, and does not require additional sensing except for a simple monocular camera. We demonstrate its adaptability across various scene types, context sources, and sensing setups. We evaluate our approach in two distinct scenarios: traditional First-Person View (FPV) and infrastructure-driven Third-Person View (TPV) navigation, demonstrating the flexibility and simplicity of our method. Our technique significantly enhances the navigational capabilities of a baseline VLM of approximately 50% in TPV scenario, and is comparable to trained models in the FPV one, with as few as 20 demonstrations.




