# reinforcement learning agent
## Toward human-centered shared autonomy AI paradigms for human-robot teaming in healthcare
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.17464v1
- **Authors**: ['Reza Abiri', 'Ali Rabiee', 'Sima Ghafoori', 'Anna Cetera']
- **Abstrat**: With recent advancements in AI and computation tools, intelligent paradigms emerged to empower different fields such as healthcare robots with new capabilities. Advanced AI robotic algorithms (e.g., reinforcement learning) can be trained and developed to autonomously make individual decisions to achieve a desired and usually fixed goal. However, such independent decisions and goal achievements might not be ideal for a healthcare robot that usually interacts with a dynamic end-user or a patient. In such a complex human-robot interaction (teaming) framework, the dynamic user continuously wants to be involved in decision-making as well as introducing new goals while interacting with their present environment in real-time. To address this challenge, an adaptive shared autonomy AI paradigm is required to be developed for the two interactive agents (Human & AI agents) with a foundation based on human-centered factors to avoid any possible ethical issues and guarantee no harm to humanity.





## SoNIC: Safe Social Navigation with Adaptive Conformal Inference and Constrained Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.17460v1
- **Authors**: ['Jianpeng Yao', 'Xiaopan Zhang', 'Yu Xia', 'Zejin Wang', 'Amit K. Roy-Chowdhury', 'Jiachen Li']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement Learning (RL) has enabled social robots to generate trajectories without human-designed rules or interventions, which makes it more effective than hard-coded systems for generalizing to complex real-world scenarios. However, social navigation is a safety-critical task that requires robots to avoid collisions with pedestrians while previous RL-based solutions fall short in safety performance in complex environments. To enhance the safety of RL policies, to the best of our knowledge, we propose the first algorithm, SoNIC, that integrates adaptive conformal inference (ACI) with constrained reinforcement learning (CRL) to learn safe policies for social navigation. More specifically, our method augments RL observations with ACI-generated nonconformity scores and provides explicit guidance for agents to leverage the uncertainty metrics to avoid safety-critical areas by incorporating safety constraints with spatial relaxation. Our method outperforms state-of-the-art baselines in terms of both safety and adherence to social norms by a large margin and demonstrates much stronger robustness to out-of-distribution scenarios. Our code and video demos are available on our project website: https://sonic-social-nav.github.io/.





## Path Following and Stabilisation of a Bicycle Model using a Reinforcement Learning Approach
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.17156v1
- **Authors**: ['Sebastian Weyrer', 'Peter Manzl', 'A. L. Schwab', 'Johannes Gerstmayr']
- **Abstrat**: Over the years, complex control approaches have been developed to control the motion of a bicycle. Reinforcement Learning (RL), a branch of machine learning, promises easy deployment of so-called agents. Deployed agents are increasingly considered as an alternative to controllers for mechanical systems. The present work introduces an RL approach to do path following with a virtual bicycle model while simultaneously stabilising it laterally. The bicycle, modelled as the Whipple benchmark model and using multibody system dynamics, has no stabilisation aids. The agent succeeds in both path following and stabilisation of the bicycle model exclusively by outputting steering angles, which are converted into steering torques via a PD controller. Curriculum learning is applied as a state-of-the-art training strategy. Different settings for the implemented RL framework are investigated and compared to each other. The performance of the deployed agents is evaluated using different types of paths and measurements. The ability of the deployed agents to do path following and stabilisation of the bicycle model travelling between 2m/s and 7m/s along complex paths including full circles, slalom manoeuvres, and lane changes is demonstrated. Explanatory methods for machine learning are used to analyse the functionality of a deployed agent and link the introduced RL approach with research in the field of bicycle dynamics.





## Reinforced Prompt Personalization for Recommendation with Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.17115v1
- **Authors**: ['Wenyu Mao', 'Jiancan Wu', 'Weijian Chen', 'Chongming Gao', 'Xiang Wang', 'Xiangnan He']
- **Abstrat**: Designing effective prompts can empower LLMs to understand user preferences and provide recommendations by leveraging LLMs' intent comprehension and knowledge utilization capabilities. However, existing research predominantly concentrates on task-wise prompting, developing fixed prompt templates composed of four patterns (i.e., role-playing, history records, reasoning guidance, and output format) and applying them to all users for a given task. Although convenient, task-wise prompting overlooks individual user differences, leading to potential mismatches in capturing user preferences. To address it, we introduce the concept of instance-wise prompting to personalize discrete prompts for individual users and propose Reinforced Prompt Personalization (RPP) to optimize the four patterns in prompts using multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL). To boost efficiency, RPP formulates prompt personalization as selecting optimal sentences holistically across the four patterns, rather than optimizing word-by-word. To ensure the quality of prompts, RPP meticulously crafts diverse expressions for each of the four patterns, considering multiple analytical perspectives for specific recommendation tasks. In addition to RPP, our proposal of RPP+ aims to enhance the scalability of action space by dynamically refining actions with LLMs throughout the iterative process. We evaluate the effectiveness of RPP/RPP+ in ranking tasks over various datasets. Experimental results demonstrate the superiority of RPP/RPP+ over traditional recommender models, few-shot methods, and other prompt-based methods, underscoring the significance of instance-wise prompting for LLMs in recommendation tasks and validating the effectiveness of RPP/RPP+. Our code is available at https://github.com/maowenyu-11/RPP.





## Applications of Multi-Agent Deep Reinforcement Learning Communication in Network Management: A Survey
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.17030v1
- **Authors**: ['Yue Pi', 'Wang Zhang', 'Yong Zhang', 'Hairong Huang', 'Baoquan Rao', 'Yulong Ding', 'Shuanghua Yang']
- **Abstrat**: With the advancement of artificial intelligence technology, the automation of network management, also known as Autonomous Driving Networks (ADN), is gaining widespread attention. The network management has shifted from traditional homogeneity and centralization to heterogeneity and decentralization. Multi-agent deep reinforcement learning (MADRL) allows agents to make decisions based on local observations independently. This approach is in line with the needs of automation and has garnered significant attention from academia and industry. In a distributed environment, information interaction between agents can effectively address the non-stationarity problem of multiple agents and promote cooperation. Therefore, in this survey, we first examined the application of MADRL in network management, including specific application fields such as traffic engineering, wireless network access, power control, and network security. Then, we conducted a detailed analysis of communication behavior between agents, including communication schemes, communication content construction, communication object selection, message processing, and communication constraints. Finally, we discussed the open issues and future research directions of agent communication in MADRL for future network management and ADN applications.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay