# reinforcement learning
## Noisy Zero-Shot Coordination: Breaking The Common Knowledge Assumption In Zero-Shot Coordination Games
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04976v1
- **Authors**: ['Usman Anwar', 'Ashish Pandian', 'Jia Wan', 'David Krueger', 'Jakob Foerster']
- **Abstrat**: Zero-shot coordination (ZSC) is a popular setting for studying the ability of reinforcement learning (RL) agents to coordinate with novel partners. Prior ZSC formulations assume the $\textit{problem setting}$ is common knowledge: each agent knows the underlying Dec-POMDP, knows others have this knowledge, and so on ad infinitum. However, this assumption rarely holds in complex real-world settings, which are often difficult to fully and correctly specify. Hence, in settings where this common knowledge assumption is invalid, agents trained using ZSC methods may not be able to coordinate well. To address this limitation, we formulate the $\textit{noisy zero-shot coordination}$ (NZSC) problem. In NZSC, agents observe different noisy versions of the ground truth Dec-POMDP, which are assumed to be distributed according to a fixed noise model. Only the distribution of ground truth Dec-POMDPs and the noise model are common knowledge. We show that a NZSC problem can be reduced to a ZSC problem by designing a meta-Dec-POMDP with an augmented state space consisting of all the ground-truth Dec-POMDPs. For solving NZSC problems, we propose a simple and flexible meta-learning method called NZSC training, in which the agents are trained across a distribution of coordination problems - which they only get to observe noisy versions of. We show that with NZSC training, RL agents can be trained to coordinate well with novel partners even when the (exact) problem setting of the coordination is not common knowledge.





## A Reinforcement Learning-Based Automatic Video Editing Method Using Pre-trained Vision-Language Model
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04942v1
- **Authors**: ['Panwen Hu', 'Nan Xiao', 'Feifei Li', 'Yongquan Chen', 'Rui Huang']
- **Abstrat**: In this era of videos, automatic video editing techniques attract more and more attention from industry and academia since they can reduce workloads and lower the requirements for human editors. Existing automatic editing systems are mainly scene- or event-specific, e.g., soccer game broadcasting, yet the automatic systems for general editing, e.g., movie or vlog editing which covers various scenes and events, were rarely studied before, and converting the event-driven editing method to a general scene is nontrivial. In this paper, we propose a two-stage scheme for general editing. Firstly, unlike previous works that extract scene-specific features, we leverage the pre-trained Vision-Language Model (VLM) to extract the editing-relevant representations as editing context. Moreover, to close the gap between the professional-looking videos and the automatic productions generated with simple guidelines, we propose a Reinforcement Learning (RL)-based editing framework to formulate the editing problem and train the virtual editor to make better sequential editing decisions. Finally, we evaluate the proposed method on a more general editing task with a real movie dataset. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness and benefits of the proposed context representation and the learning ability of our RL-based editing framework.





## Evaluating Robustness of Reinforcement Learning Algorithms for Autonomous Shipping
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04915v1
- **Authors**: ['Bavo Lesy', 'Ali Anwar', 'Siegfried Mercelis']
- **Abstrat**: Recently, there has been growing interest in autonomous shipping due to its potential to improve maritime efficiency and safety. The use of advanced technologies, such as artificial intelligence, can address the current navigational and operational challenges in autonomous shipping. In particular, inland waterway transport (IWT) presents a unique set of challenges, such as crowded waterways and variable environmental conditions. In such dynamic settings, the reliability and robustness of autonomous shipping solutions are critical factors for ensuring safe operations. This paper examines the robustness of benchmark deep reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms, implemented for IWT within an autonomous shipping simulator, and their ability to generate effective motion planning policies. We demonstrate that a model-free approach can achieve an adequate policy in the simulator, successfully navigating port environments never encountered during training. We focus particularly on Soft-Actor Critic (SAC), which we show to be inherently more robust to environmental disturbances compared to MuZero, a state-of-the-art model-based RL algorithm. In this paper, we take a significant step towards developing robust, applied RL frameworks that can be generalized to various vessel types and navigate complex port- and inland environments and scenarios.





## Think Smart, Act SMARL! Analyzing Probabilistic Logic Driven Safety in Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04867v1
- **Authors**: ['Satchit Chatterji', 'Erman Acar']
- **Abstrat**: An important challenge for enabling the deployment of reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms in the real world is safety. This has resulted in the recent research field of Safe RL, which aims to learn optimal policies that are safe. One successful approach in that direction is probabilistic logic shields (PLS), a model-based Safe RL technique that uses formal specifications based on probabilistic logic programming, constraining an agent's policy to comply with those specifications in a probabilistic sense. However, safety is inherently a multi-agent concept, since real-world environments often involve multiple agents interacting simultaneously, leading to a complex system which is hard to control. Moreover, safe multi-agent RL (Safe MARL) is still underexplored. In order to address this gap, in this paper we ($i$) introduce Shielded MARL (SMARL) by extending PLS to MARL -- in particular, we introduce Probabilistic Logic Temporal Difference Learning (PLTD) to enable shielded independent Q-learning (SIQL), and introduce shielded independent PPO (SIPPO) using probabilistic logic policy gradients; ($ii$) show its positive effect and use as an equilibrium selection mechanism in various game-theoretic environments including two-player simultaneous games, extensive-form games, stochastic games, and some grid-world extensions in terms of safety, cooperation, and alignment with normative behaviors; and ($iii$) look into the asymmetric case where only one agent is shielded, and show that the shielded agent has a significant influence on the unshielded one, providing further evidence of SMARL's ability to enhance safety and cooperation in diverse multi-agent environments.





## Asymptotic regularity of a generalised stochastic Halpern scheme with applications
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04845v1
- **Authors**: ['Nicholas Pischke', 'Thomas Powell']
- **Abstrat**: We provide abstract, general and highly uniform rates of asymptotic regularity for a generalized stochastic Halpern-style iteration, which incorporates a second mapping in the style of a Krasnoselskii-Mann iteration. This iteration is general in two ways: First, it incorporates stochasticity in a completely abstract way rather than fixing a sampling method; secondly, it includes as special cases stochastic versions of various schemes from the optimization literature, including Halpern's iteration as well as a Krasnoselskii-Mann iteration with Tikhonov regularization terms in the sense of Bo\c{t}, Csetnek and Meier. For these particular cases, we in particular obtain linear rates of asymptotic regularity, matching (or improving) the currently best known rates for these iterations in stochastic optimization, and quadratic rates of asymptotic regularity are obtained in the context of inner product spaces for the general iteration. We utilize these rates to give bounds on the oracle complexity of such iterations under suitable variance assumptions and batching strategies, again presented in an abstract style. Finally, we sketch how the schemes presented here can be instantiated in the context of reinforcement learning to yield novel methods for Q-learning.





## Plasticity Loss in Deep Reinforcement Learning: A Survey
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04832v1
- **Authors**: ['Timo Klein', 'Lukas Miklautz', 'Kevin Sidak', 'Claudia Plant', 'Sebastian Tschiatschek']
- **Abstrat**: Akin to neuroplasticity in human brains, the plasticity of deep neural networks enables their quick adaption to new data. This makes plasticity particularly crucial for deep Reinforcement Learning (RL) agents: Once plasticity is lost, an agent's performance will inevitably plateau because it cannot improve its policy to account for changes in the data distribution, which are a necessary consequence of its learning process. Thus, developing well-performing and sample-efficient agents hinges on their ability to remain plastic during training. Furthermore, the loss of plasticity can be connected to many other issues plaguing deep RL, such as training instabilities, scaling failures, overestimation bias, and insufficient exploration. With this survey, we aim to provide an overview of the emerging research on plasticity loss for academics and practitioners of deep reinforcement learning. First, we propose a unified definition of plasticity loss based on recent works, relate it to definitions from the literature, and discuss metrics for measuring plasticity loss. Then, we categorize and discuss numerous possible causes of plasticity loss before reviewing currently employed mitigation strategies. Our taxonomy is the first systematic overview of the current state of the field. Lastly, we discuss prevalent issues within the literature, such as a necessity for broader evaluation, and provide recommendations for future research, like gaining a better understanding of an agent's neural activity and behavior.





## The ODE Method for Asymptotic Statistics in Stochastic Approximation and Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2110.14427v5
- **Authors**: ['Vivek Borkar', 'Shuhang Chen', 'Adithya Devraj', 'Ioannis Kontoyiannis', 'Sean Meyn']
- **Abstrat**: The paper concerns the $d$-dimensional stochastic approximation recursion, $$ \theta_{n+1}= \theta_n + \alpha_{n + 1} f(\theta_n, \Phi_{n+1}) $$ where $ \{ \Phi_n \}$ is a stochastic process on a general state space, satisfying a conditional Markov property that allows for parameter-dependent noise. The main results are established under additional conditions on the mean flow and a version of the Donsker-Varadhan Lyapunov drift condition known as (DV3):   {(i)} An appropriate Lyapunov function is constructed that implies convergence of the estimates in $L_4$.   {(ii)} A functional central limit theorem (CLT) is established, as well as the usual one-dimensional CLT for the normalized error. Moment bounds combined with the CLT imply convergence of the normalized covariance $\textsf{E} [ z_n z_n^T ]$ to the asymptotic covariance in the CLT, where $z_n{=:} (\theta_n-\theta^*)/\sqrt{\alpha_n}$.   {(iii)} The CLT holds for the normalized version $z^{\text{PR}}_n{=:} \sqrt{n} [\theta^{\text{PR}}_n -\theta^*]$, of the averaged parameters $\theta^{\text{PR}}_n {=:} n^{-1} \sum_{k=1}^n\theta_k$, subject to standard assumptions on the step-size. Moreover, the covariance in the CLT coincides with the minimal covariance of Polyak and Ruppert.   {(iv)} An example is given where $f$ and $\bar{f}$ are linear in $\theta$, and $\Phi$ is a geometrically ergodic Markov chain but does not satisfy (DV3). While the algorithm is convergent, the second moment of $\theta_n$ is unbounded and in fact diverges.   {\bf This arXiv version 3 represents a major extension of the results in prior versions.} The main results now allow for parameter-dependent noise, as is often the case in applications to reinforcement learning.





## Harnessing the Power of Gradient-Based Simulations for Multi-Objective Optimization in Particle Accelerators
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04817v1
- **Authors**: ['Kishansingh Rajput', 'Malachi Schram', 'Auralee Edelen', 'Jonathan Colen', 'Armen Kasparian', 'Ryan Roussel', 'Adam Carpenter', 'He Zhang', 'Jay Benesch']
- **Abstrat**: Particle accelerator operation requires simultaneous optimization of multiple objectives. Multi-Objective Optimization (MOO) is particularly challenging due to trade-offs between the objectives. Evolutionary algorithms, such as genetic algorithm (GA), have been leveraged for many optimization problems, however, they do not apply to complex control problems by design. This paper demonstrates the power of differentiability for solving MOO problems using a Deep Differentiable Reinforcement Learning (DDRL) algorithm in particle accelerators. We compare DDRL algorithm with Model Free Reinforcement Learning (MFRL), GA and Bayesian Optimization (BO) for simultaneous optimization of heat load and trip rates in the Continuous Electron Beam Accelerator Facility (CEBAF). The underlying problem enforces strict constraints on both individual states and actions as well as cumulative (global) constraint for energy requirements of the beam. A physics-based surrogate model based on real data is developed. This surrogate model is differentiable and allows back-propagation of gradients. The results are evaluated in the form of a Pareto-front for two objectives. We show that the DDRL outperforms MFRL, BO, and GA on high dimensional problems.





## Gradient Cuff: Detecting Jailbreak Attacks on Large Language Models by Exploring Refusal Loss Landscapes
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00867v3
- **Authors**: ['Xiaomeng Hu', 'Pin-Yu Chen', 'Tsung-Yi Ho']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) are becoming a prominent generative AI tool, where the user enters a query and the LLM generates an answer. To reduce harm and misuse, efforts have been made to align these LLMs to human values using advanced training techniques such as Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF). However, recent studies have highlighted the vulnerability of LLMs to adversarial jailbreak attempts aiming at subverting the embedded safety guardrails. To address this challenge, this paper defines and investigates the Refusal Loss of LLMs and then proposes a method called Gradient Cuff to detect jailbreak attempts. Gradient Cuff exploits the unique properties observed in the refusal loss landscape, including functional values and its smoothness, to design an effective two-step detection strategy. Experimental results on two aligned LLMs (LLaMA-2-7B-Chat and Vicuna-7B-V1.5) and six types of jailbreak attacks (GCG, AutoDAN, PAIR, TAP, Base64, and LRL) show that Gradient Cuff can significantly improve the LLM's rejection capability for malicious jailbreak queries, while maintaining the model's performance for benign user queries by adjusting the detection threshold.





## Axioms for AI Alignment from Human Feedback
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.14758v2
- **Authors**: ['Luise Ge', 'Daniel Halpern', 'Evi Micha', 'Ariel D. Procaccia', 'Itai Shapira', 'Yevgeniy Vorobeychik', 'Junlin Wu']
- **Abstrat**: In the context of reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), the reward function is generally derived from maximum likelihood estimation of a random utility model based on pairwise comparisons made by humans. The problem of learning a reward function is one of preference aggregation that, we argue, largely falls within the scope of social choice theory. From this perspective, we can evaluate different aggregation methods via established axioms, examining whether these methods meet or fail well-known standards. We demonstrate that both the Bradley-Terry-Luce Model and its broad generalizations fail to meet basic axioms. In response, we develop novel rules for learning reward functions with strong axiomatic guarantees. A key innovation from the standpoint of social choice is that our problem has a linear structure, which greatly restricts the space of feasible rules and leads to a new paradigm that we call linear social choice.





## AllGaits: Learning All Quadruped Gaits and Transitions
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04787v1
- **Authors**: ['Guillaume Bellegarda', 'Milad Shafiee', 'Auke Ijspeert']
- **Abstrat**: We present a framework for learning a single policy capable of producing all quadruped gaits and transitions. The framework consists of a policy trained with deep reinforcement learning (DRL) to modulate the parameters of a system of abstract oscillators (i.e. Central Pattern Generator), whose output is mapped to joint commands through a pattern formation layer that sets the gait style, i.e. body height, swing foot ground clearance height, and foot offset. Different gaits are formed by changing the coupling between different oscillators, which can be instantaneously selected at any velocity by a user. With this framework, we systematically investigate which gait should be used at which velocity, and when gait transitions should occur from a Cost of Transport (COT), i.e. energy-efficiency, point of view. Additionally, we note how gait style changes as a function of locomotion speed for each gait to keep the most energy-efficient locomotion. While the currently most popular gait (trot) does not result in the lowest COT, we find that considering different co-dependent metrics such as mean base velocity and joint acceleration result in different `optimal' gaits than those that minimize COT. We deploy our controller in various hardware experiments, showing all 9 typical quadruped animal gaits, and demonstrate generalizability to unseen gaits during training, and robustness to leg failures. Video results can be found at https://youtu.be/OLoWSX_R868.





## Navigating Trade-offs: Policy Summarization for Multi-Objective Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04784v1
- **Authors**: ['Zuzanna Osika', 'Jazmin Zatarain-Salazar', 'Frans A. Oliehoek', 'Pradeep K. Murukannaiah']
- **Abstrat**: Multi-objective reinforcement learning (MORL) is used to solve problems involving multiple objectives. An MORL agent must make decisions based on the diverse signals provided by distinct reward functions. Training an MORL agent yields a set of solutions (policies), each presenting distinct trade-offs among the objectives (expected returns). MORL enhances explainability by enabling fine-grained comparisons of policies in the solution set based on their trade-offs as opposed to having a single policy. However, the solution set is typically large and multi-dimensional, where each policy (e.g., a neural network) is represented by its objective values.   We propose an approach for clustering the solution set generated by MORL. By considering both policy behavior and objective values, our clustering method can reveal the relationship between policy behaviors and regions in the objective space. This approach can enable decision makers (DMs) to identify overarching trends and insights in the solution set rather than examining each policy individually. We tested our method in four multi-objective environments and found it outperformed traditional k-medoids clustering. Additionally, we include a case study that demonstrates its real-world application.





## TacEx: GelSight Tactile Simulation in Isaac Sim -- Combining Soft-Body and Visuotactile Simulators
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04776v1
- **Authors**: ['Duc Huy Nguyen', 'Tim Schneider', 'Guillaume Duret', 'Alap Kshirsagar', 'Boris Belousov', 'Jan Peters']
- **Abstrat**: Training robot policies in simulation is becoming increasingly popular; nevertheless, a precise, reliable, and easy-to-use tactile simulator for contact-rich manipulation tasks is still missing. To close this gap, we develop TacEx -- a modular tactile simulation framework. We embed a state-of-the-art soft-body simulator for contacts named GIPC and vision-based tactile simulators Taxim and FOTS into Isaac Sim to achieve robust and plausible simulation of the visuotactile sensor GelSight Mini. We implement several Isaac Lab environments for Reinforcement Learning (RL) leveraging our TacEx simulation, including object pushing, lifting, and pole balancing. We validate that the simulation is stable and that the high-dimensional observations, such as the gel deformation and the RGB images from the GelSight camera, can be used for training. The code, videos, and additional results will be released online https://sites.google.com/view/tacex.





## WoCoCo: Learning Whole-Body Humanoid Control with Sequential Contacts
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.06005v2
- **Authors**: ['Chong Zhang', 'Wenli Xiao', 'Tairan He', 'Guanya Shi']
- **Abstrat**: Humanoid activities involving sequential contacts are crucial for complex robotic interactions and operations in the real world and are traditionally solved by model-based motion planning, which is time-consuming and often relies on simplified dynamics models. Although model-free reinforcement learning (RL) has become a powerful tool for versatile and robust whole-body humanoid control, it still requires tedious task-specific tuning and state machine design and suffers from long-horizon exploration issues in tasks involving contact sequences. In this work, we propose WoCoCo (Whole-Body Control with Sequential Contacts), a unified framework to learn whole-body humanoid control with sequential contacts by naturally decomposing the tasks into separate contact stages. Such decomposition facilitates simple and general policy learning pipelines through task-agnostic reward and sim-to-real designs, requiring only one or two task-related terms to be specified for each task. We demonstrated that end-to-end RL-based controllers trained with WoCoCo enable four challenging whole-body humanoid tasks involving diverse contact sequences in the real world without any motion priors: 1) versatile parkour jumping, 2) box loco-manipulation, 3) dynamic clap-and-tap dancing, and 4) cliffside climbing. We further show that WoCoCo is a general framework beyond humanoid by applying it in 22-DoF dinosaur robot loco-manipulation tasks.





## A dynamical model of platform choice and online segregation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04681v1
- **Authors**: ['Sven Banisch', 'Dennis Jacob', 'Tom Willaert', 'Eckehard Olbrich']
- **Abstrat**: In order to truly understand how social media might shape online discourses or contribute to societal polarization, we need refined models of platform choice, that is: models that help us understand why users prefer one social media platform over another. This study develops a dynamic model of platform selection, extending Social Feedback Theory by incorporating multi-agent reinforcement learning to capture how user decisions are shaped by past rewards across different platforms. A key parameter ($\mu$) in the model governs users' tendencies to either seek approval from like-minded peers or engage with opposing views. Our findings reveal that online environments can evolve into suboptimal states characterized by polarized, strongly opinionated echo chambers, even when users prefer diverse perspectives. Interestingly, this polarizing state coexists with another equilibrium, where users gravitate toward a single dominant platform, marginalizing other platforms into extremity. Using agent-based simulations and dynamical systems analysis, our model underscores the complex interplay of user preferences and platform dynamics, offering insights into how digital spaces might be better managed to foster diverse discourse.





## Semantic-Aware Resource Management for C-V2X Platooning via Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04672v1
- **Authors**: ['Zhiyu Shao', 'Qiong Wu', 'Pingyi Fan', 'Kezhi Wang', 'Qiang Fan', 'Wen Chen', 'Khaled B. Letaief']
- **Abstrat**: This paper presents a semantic-aware multi-modal resource allocation (SAMRA) for multi-task using multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL), termed SAMRAMARL, utilizing in platoon systems where cellular vehicle-to-everything (C-V2X) communication is employed. The proposed approach leverages the semantic information to optimize the allocation of communication resources. By integrating a distributed multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) algorithm, SAMRAMARL enables autonomous decision-making for each vehicle, channel assignment optimization, power allocation, and semantic symbol length based on the contextual importance of the transmitted information. This semantic-awareness ensures that both vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) and vehicle-to-infrastructure (V2I) communications prioritize data that is critical for maintaining safe and efficient platoon operations. The framework also introduces a tailored quality of experience (QoE) metric for semantic communication, aiming to maximize QoE in V2V links while improving the success rate of semantic information transmission (SRS). Extensive simulations has demonstrated that SAMRAMARL outperforms existing methods, achieving significant gains in QoE and communication efficiency in C-V2X platooning scenarios.





## IGDrivSim: A Benchmark for the Imitation Gap in Autonomous Driving
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04653v1
- **Authors**: ['Clémence Grislain', 'Risto Vuorio', 'Cong Lu', 'Shimon Whiteson']
- **Abstrat**: Developing autonomous vehicles that can navigate complex environments with human-level safety and efficiency is a central goal in self-driving research. A common approach to achieving this is imitation learning, where agents are trained to mimic human expert demonstrations collected from real-world driving scenarios. However, discrepancies between human perception and the self-driving car's sensors can introduce an \textit{imitation gap}, leading to imitation learning failures. In this work, we introduce \textbf{IGDrivSim}, a benchmark built on top of the Waymax simulator, designed to investigate the effects of the imitation gap in learning autonomous driving policy from human expert demonstrations. Our experiments show that this perception gap between human experts and self-driving agents can hinder the learning of safe and effective driving behaviors. We further show that combining imitation with reinforcement learning, using a simple penalty reward for prohibited behaviors, effectively mitigates these failures. Our code is open-sourced at: https://github.com/clemgris/IGDrivSim.git.





## Sharp Analysis for KL-Regularized Contextual Bandits and RLHF
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04625v1
- **Authors**: ['Heyang Zhao', 'Chenlu Ye', 'Quanquan Gu', 'Tong Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: Reverse-Kullback-Leibler (KL) regularization has emerged to be a predominant technique used to enhance policy optimization in reinforcement learning (RL) and reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), which forces the learned policy to stay close to a reference policy. While the effectiveness and necessity of KL-regularization have been empirically demonstrated in various practical scenarios, current theoretical analysis of KL-regularized RLHF still obtains the same $\mathcal{O}(1 / \epsilon^2)$ sample complexity as problems without KL-regularization. To understand the fundamental distinction between policy learning objectives with KL-regularization and ones without KL-regularization, we are the first to theoretically demonstrate the power of KL-regularization by providing a sharp analysis for KL-regularized contextual bandits and RLHF, revealing an $\mathcal{O}(1 / \epsilon)$ sample complexity when $\epsilon$ is sufficiently small.   We further explore the role of data coverage in contextual bandits and RLHF. While the coverage assumption is commonly employed in offline RLHF to link the samples from the reference policy to the optimal policy, often at the cost of a multiplicative dependence on the coverage coefficient, its impact on the sample complexity of online RLHF remains unclear. Previous theoretical analyses of online RLHF typically require explicit exploration and additional structural assumptions on the reward function class. In contrast, we show that with sufficient coverage from the reference policy, a simple two-stage mixed sampling strategy can achieve a sample complexity with only an additive dependence on the coverage coefficient. Our results provide a comprehensive understanding of the roles of KL-regularization and data coverage in RLHF, shedding light on the design of more efficient RLHF algorithms.





## Constrained Latent Action Policies for Model-Based Offline Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04562v1
- **Authors**: ['Marvin Alles', 'Philip Becker-Ehmck', 'Patrick van der Smagt', 'Maximilian Karl']
- **Abstrat**: In offline reinforcement learning, a policy is learned using a static dataset in the absence of costly feedback from the environment. In contrast to the online setting, only using static datasets poses additional challenges, such as policies generating out-of-distribution samples. Model-based offline reinforcement learning methods try to overcome these by learning a model of the underlying dynamics of the environment and using it to guide policy search. It is beneficial but, with limited datasets, errors in the model and the issue of value overestimation among out-of-distribution states can worsen performance. Current model-based methods apply some notion of conservatism to the Bellman update, often implemented using uncertainty estimation derived from model ensembles. In this paper, we propose Constrained Latent Action Policies (C-LAP) which learns a generative model of the joint distribution of observations and actions. We cast policy learning as a constrained objective to always stay within the support of the latent action distribution, and use the generative capabilities of the model to impose an implicit constraint on the generated actions. Thereby eliminating the need to use additional uncertainty penalties on the Bellman update and significantly decreasing the number of gradient steps required to learn a policy. We empirically evaluate C-LAP on the D4RL and V-D4RL benchmark, and show that C-LAP is competitive to state-of-the-art methods, especially outperforming on datasets with visual observations.





# TD3
## Hypercube Policy Regularization Framework for Offline Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04534v1
- **Authors**: ['Yi Shen', 'Hanyan Huang']
- **Abstrat**: Offline reinforcement learning has received extensive attention from scholars because it avoids the interaction between the agent and the environment by learning a policy through a static dataset. However, general reinforcement learning methods cannot get satisfactory results in offline reinforcement learning due to the out-of-distribution state actions that the dataset cannot cover during training. To solve this problem, the policy regularization method that tries to directly clone policies used in static datasets has received numerous studies due to its simplicity and effectiveness. However, policy constraint methods make the agent choose the corresponding actions in the static dataset. This type of constraint is usually over-conservative, which results in suboptimal policies, especially in low-quality static datasets. In this paper, a hypercube policy regularization framework is proposed, this method alleviates the constraints of policy constraint methods by allowing the agent to explore the actions corresponding to similar states in the static dataset, which increases the effectiveness of algorithms in low-quality datasets. It was also theoretically demonstrated that the hypercube policy regularization framework can effectively improve the performance of original algorithms. In addition, the hypercube policy regularization framework is combined with TD3-BC and Diffusion-QL for experiments on D4RL datasets which are called TD3-BC-C and Diffusion-QL-C. The experimental results of the score demonstrate that TD3-BC-C and Diffusion-QL-C perform better than state-of-the-art algorithms like IQL, CQL, TD3-BC and Diffusion-QL in most D4RL environments in approximate time.





# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Smoothing of Headland Path Edges and Headland-to-Mainfield Lane Transitions Based on a Spatial Domain Transformation and Linear Programming
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.05979v2
- **Authors**: ['Mogens Plessen']
- **Abstrat**: Within the context of in-field path planning and under the assumption of nonholonomic vehicle models this paper addresses two tasks: smoothing of headland path edges and smoothing of headland-to-mainfield lane transitions. Both tasks are solved by a two-step hierarchical algorithm. The first step differs for the two tasks generating either a piecewise-affine or a Dubins reference path. The second step leverages a transformation of vehicle dynamics from the time domain into the spatial domain and linear programming. Benefits such as a hyperparameter-free objective function and spatial constraints useful for area coverage gaps avoidance and precision path planning are discussed. The method, which is a deterministic optimisation-based method, is evaluated on 5 real-world fields solving 19 instances of the first task and 84 instances of the second task.




