# reinforcement learning
## BALROG: Benchmarking Agentic LLM and VLM Reasoning On Games
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13543v1
- **Authors**: ['Davide Paglieri', 'Bartłomiej Cupiał', 'Samuel Coward', 'Ulyana Piterbarg', 'Maciej Wolczyk', 'Akbir Khan', 'Eduardo Pignatelli', 'Łukasz Kuciński', 'Lerrel Pinto', 'Rob Fergus', 'Jakob Nicolaus Foerster', 'Jack Parker-Holder', 'Tim Rocktäschel']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) and Vision Language Models (VLMs) possess extensive knowledge and exhibit promising reasoning abilities; however, they still struggle to perform well in complex, dynamic environments. Real-world tasks require handling intricate interactions, advanced spatial reasoning, long-term planning, and continuous exploration of new strategies-areas in which we lack effective methodologies for comprehensively evaluating these capabilities. To address this gap, we introduce BALROG, a novel benchmark designed to assess the agentic capabilities of LLMs and VLMs through a diverse set of challenging games. Our benchmark incorporates a range of existing reinforcement learning environments with varying levels of difficulty, including tasks that are solvable by non-expert humans in seconds to extremely challenging ones that may take years to master (e.g., the NetHack Learning Environment). We devise fine-grained metrics to measure performance and conduct an extensive evaluation of several popular open-source and closed-source LLMs and VLMs. Our findings indicate that while current models achieve partial success in the easier games, they struggle significantly with more challenging tasks. Notably, we observe severe deficiencies in vision-based decision-making, as models perform worse when visual representations of the environments are provided. We release BALROG as an open and user-friendly benchmark to facilitate future research and development in the agentic community.





## Metacognition for Unknown Situations and Environments (MUSE)
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13537v1
- **Authors**: ['Rodolfo Valiente', 'Praveen K. Pilly']
- **Abstrat**: Metacognition--the awareness and regulation of one's cognitive processes--is central to human adaptability in unknown situations. In contrast, current autonomous agents often struggle in novel environments due to their limited capacity for adaptation. We hypothesize that metacognition is a critical missing ingredient in adaptive autonomous systems, equipping them with the cognitive flexibility needed to tackle unfamiliar challenges. Given the broad scope of metacognitive abilities, we focus on two key aspects: competence awareness and strategy selection for novel tasks. To this end, we propose the Metacognition for Unknown Situations and Environments (MUSE) framework, which integrates metacognitive processes--specifically self-awareness and self-regulation--into autonomous agents. We present two initial implementations of MUSE: one based on world modeling and another leveraging large language models (LLMs), both instantiating the metacognitive cycle. Our system continuously learns to assess its competence on a given task and uses this self-awareness to guide iterative cycles of strategy selection. MUSE agents show significant improvements in self-awareness and self-regulation, enabling them to solve novel, out-of-distribution tasks more effectively compared to Dreamer-v3-based reinforcement learning and purely prompt-based LLM agent approaches. This work highlights the promise of approaches inspired by cognitive and neural systems in enabling autonomous systems to adapt to new environments, overcoming the limitations of current methods that rely heavily on extensive training data.





## Robust Monocular Visual Odometry using Curriculum Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13438v1
- **Authors**: ['Assaf Lahiany', 'Oren Gal']
- **Abstrat**: Curriculum Learning (CL), drawing inspiration from natural learning patterns observed in humans and animals, employs a systematic approach of gradually introducing increasingly complex training data during model development. Our work applies innovative CL methodologies to address the challenging geometric problem of monocular Visual Odometry (VO) estimation, which is essential for robot navigation in constrained environments. The primary objective of our research is to push the boundaries of current state-of-the-art (SOTA) benchmarks in monocular VO by investigating various curriculum learning strategies. We enhance the end-to-end Deep-Patch-Visual Odometry (DPVO) framework through the integration of novel CL approaches, with the goal of developing more resilient models capable of maintaining high performance across challenging environments and complex motion scenarios. Our research encompasses several distinctive CL strategies. We develop methods to evaluate sample difficulty based on trajectory motion characteristics, implement sophisticated adaptive scheduling through self-paced weighted loss mechanisms, and utilize reinforcement learning agents for dynamic adjustment of training emphasis. Through comprehensive evaluation on the real-world TartanAir dataset, our Curriculum Learning-based Deep-Patch-Visual Odometry (CL-DPVO) demonstrates superior performance compared to existing SOTA methods, including both feature-based and learning-based VO approaches. The results validate the effectiveness of integrating curriculum learning principles into visual odometry systems.





## No Representation, No Trust: Connecting Representation, Collapse, and Trust Issues in PPO
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.00662v3
- **Authors**: ['Skander Moalla', 'Andrea Miele', 'Daniil Pyatko', 'Razvan Pascanu', 'Caglar Gulcehre']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning (RL) is inherently rife with non-stationarity since the states and rewards the agent observes during training depend on its changing policy. Therefore, networks in deep RL must be capable of adapting to new observations and fitting new targets. However, previous works have observed that networks trained under non-stationarity exhibit an inability to continue learning, termed loss of plasticity, and eventually a collapse in performance. For off-policy deep value-based RL methods, this phenomenon has been correlated with a decrease in representation rank and the ability to fit random targets, termed capacity loss. Although this correlation has generally been attributed to neural network learning under non-stationarity, the connection to representation dynamics has not been carefully studied in on-policy policy optimization methods. In this work, we empirically study representation dynamics in Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) on the Atari and MuJoCo environments, revealing that PPO agents are also affected by feature rank deterioration and capacity loss. We show that this is aggravated by stronger non-stationarity, ultimately driving the actor's performance to collapse, regardless of the performance of the critic. We ask why the trust region, specific to methods like PPO, cannot alleviate or prevent the collapse and find a connection between representation collapse and the degradation of the trust region, one exacerbating the other. Finally, we present Proximal Feature Optimization (PFO), a novel auxiliary loss that, along with other interventions, shows that regularizing the representation dynamics mitigates the performance collapse of PPO agents.





## A Survey On Enhancing Reinforcement Learning in Complex Environments: Insights from Human and LLM Feedback
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13410v1
- **Authors**: ['Alireza Rashidi Laleh', 'Majid Nili Ahmadabadi']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning (RL) is one of the active fields in machine learning, demonstrating remarkable potential in tackling real-world challenges. Despite its promising prospects, this methodology has encountered with issues and challenges, hindering it from achieving the best performance. In particular, these approaches lack decent performance when navigating environments and solving tasks with large observation space, often resulting in sample-inefficiency and prolonged learning times. This issue, commonly referred to as the curse of dimensionality, complicates decision-making for RL agents, necessitating a careful balance between attention and decision-making. RL agents, when augmented with human or large language models' (LLMs) feedback, may exhibit resilience and adaptability, leading to enhanced performance and accelerated learning. Such feedback, conveyed through various modalities or granularities including natural language, serves as a guide for RL agents, aiding them in discerning relevant environmental cues and optimizing decision-making processes. In this survey paper, we mainly focus on problems of two-folds: firstly, we focus on humans or an LLMs assistance, investigating the ways in which these entities may collaborate with the RL agent in order to foster optimal behavior and expedite learning; secondly, we delve into the research papers dedicated to addressing the intricacies of environments characterized by large observation space.





## Revisiting Discrete Soft Actor-Critic
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2209.10081v4
- **Authors**: ['Haibin Zhou', 'Tong Wei', 'Zichuan Lin', 'junyou li', 'Junliang Xing', 'Yuanchun Shi', 'Li Shen', 'Chao Yu', 'Deheng Ye']
- **Abstrat**: We study the adaption of Soft Actor-Critic (SAC), which is considered as a state-of-the-art reinforcement learning (RL) algorithm, from continuous action space to discrete action space. We revisit vanilla discrete SAC and provide an in-depth understanding of its Q value underestimation and performance instability issues when applied to discrete settings. We thereby propose Stable Discrete SAC (SDSAC), an algorithm that leverages entropy-penalty and double average Q-learning with Q-clip to address these issues. Extensive experiments on typical benchmarks with discrete action space, including Atari games and a large-scale MOBA game, show the efficacy of our proposed method. Our code is at: https://github.com/coldsummerday/SD-SAC.git.





## Fine-tuning Myoelectric Control through Reinforcement Learning in a Game Environment
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13327v1
- **Authors**: ['Kilian Freitag', 'Yiannis Karayiannidis', 'Jan Zbinden', 'Rita Laezza']
- **Abstrat**: Objective: Enhancing the reliability of myoelectric controllers that decode motor intent is a pressing challenge in the field of bionic prosthetics. State-of-the-art research has mostly focused on Supervised Learning (SL) techniques to tackle this problem. However, obtaining high-quality labeled data that accurately represents muscle activity during daily usage remains difficult. We investigate the potential of Reinforcement Learning (RL) to further improve the decoding of human motion intent by incorporating usage-based data. Methods: The starting point of our method is a SL control policy, pretrained on a static recording of electromyographic (EMG) ground truth data. We then apply RL to fine-tune the pretrained classifier with dynamic EMG data obtained during interaction with a game environment developed for this work. We conducted real-time experiments to evaluate our approach and achieved significant improvements in human-in-the-loop performance. Results: The method effectively predicts simultaneous finger movements, leading to a two-fold increase in decoding accuracy during gameplay and a 39\% improvement in a separate motion test. Conclusion: By employing RL and incorporating usage-based EMG data during fine-tuning, our method achieves significant improvements in accuracy and robustness. Significance: These results showcase the potential of RL for enhancing the reliability of myoelectric controllers, of particular importance for advanced bionic limbs. See our project page for visual demonstrations: https://sites.google.com/view/bionic-limb-rl





## Mitigating Sycophancy in Decoder-Only Transformer Architectures: Synthetic Data Intervention
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.10156v2
- **Authors**: ['Libo Wang']
- **Abstrat**: To address the sycophancy problem caused by reinforcement learning from human feedback in large language models, this research applies synthetic data intervention technology to the decoder-only transformer architecture. Based on the research gaps in the existing literature, the researcher designed an experimental process to reduce the tendency of models to cater by generating diversified data, and used GPT4o as an experimental tool for verification. The experiment used 100 true and false questions, and compared the performance of the model trained with synthetic data intervention and the original untrained model on multiple indicators. The results show that the SDI training model supports the technology in terms of accuracy rate and sycophancy rate and has significant effectiveness in reducing sycophancy phenomena. Notably, the data set, experimental process, code and data results have been uploaded to Github, the link is https://github.com/brucewang123456789/GeniusTrail.git.





## Backward Stochastic Control System with Entropy Regularization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13219v1
- **Authors**: ['Ziyue Chen', 'Qi Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: The entropy regularization is inspired by information entropy from machine learning and the ideas of exploration and exploitation in reinforcement learning, which appears in the control problem to design an approximating algorithm for the optimal control. This paper is concerned with the optimal exploratory control for backward stochastic system, generated by the backward stochastic differential equation and with the entropy regularization in its cost functional. We give the theoretical depict of the optimal relaxed control so as to lay the foundation for the application of such a backward stochastic control system to mathematical finance and algorithm implementation. For this, we first establish the stochastic maximum principle by convex variation method. Then we prove sufficient condition for the optimal control and demonstrate the implicit form of optimal control. Finally, the existence and uniqueness of the optimal control for backward linear-quadratic control problem with entropy regularization is proved by decoupling techniques.





## ViSTa Dataset: Do vision-language models understand sequential tasks?
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13211v1
- **Authors**: ['Evžen Wybitul', 'Evan Ryan Gunter', 'Mikhail Seleznyov']
- **Abstrat**: Using vision-language models (VLMs) as reward models in reinforcement learning holds promise for reducing costs and improving safety. So far, VLM reward models have only been used for goal-oriented tasks, where the agent must reach a particular final outcome. We explore VLMs' potential to supervise tasks that cannot be scored by the final state alone. To this end, we introduce ViSTa, a dataset for evaluating Vision-based understanding of Sequential Tasks. ViSTa comprises over 4,000 videos with step-by-step descriptions in virtual home, Minecraft, and real-world environments. Its novel hierarchical structure -- basic single-step tasks composed into more and more complex sequential tasks -- allows a fine-grained understanding of how well VLMs can judge tasks with varying complexity. To illustrate this, we use ViSTa to evaluate state-of-the-art VLMs, including CLIP, ViCLIP, and GPT-4o. We find that, while they are all good at object recognition, they fail to understand sequential tasks, with only GPT-4o achieving non-trivial performance.





## Engagement-Driven Content Generation with Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13187v1
- **Authors**: ['Erica Coppolillo', 'Marco Minici', 'Federico Cinus', 'Francesco Bonchi', 'Giuseppe Manco']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) exhibit significant persuasion capabilities in one-on-one interactions, but their influence within social networks remains underexplored. This study investigates the potential social impact of LLMs in these environments, where interconnected users and complex opinion dynamics pose unique challenges. In particular, we address the following research question: can LLMs learn to generate meaningful content that maximizes user engagement on social networks?   To answer this question, we define a pipeline to guide the LLM-based content generation which employs reinforcement learning with simulated feedback. In our framework, the reward is based on an engagement model borrowed from the literature on opinion dynamics and information propagation. Moreover, we force the text generated by the LLM to be aligned with a given topic and to satisfy a minimum fluency requirement.   Using our framework, we analyze the capabilities and limitations of LLMs in tackling the given task, specifically considering the relative positions of the LLM as an agent within the social network and the distribution of opinions in the network on the given topic. Our findings show the full potential of LLMs in creating social engagement. Notable properties of our approach are that the learning procedure is adaptive to the opinion distribution of the underlying network and agnostic to the specifics of the engagement model, which is embedded as a plug-and-play component. In this regard, our approach can be easily refined for more complex engagement tasks and interventions in computational social science.   The code used for the experiments is publicly available at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/EDCG/.





## Learning Time-Optimal and Speed-Adjustable Tactile In-Hand Manipulation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13148v1
- **Authors**: ['Johannes Pitz', 'Lennart Röstel', 'Leon Sievers', 'Berthold Bäuml']
- **Abstrat**: In-hand manipulation with multi-fingered hands is a challenging problem that recently became feasible with the advent of deep reinforcement learning methods. While most contributions to the task brought improvements in robustness and generalization, this paper addresses the critical performance measure of the speed at which an in-hand manipulation can be performed. We present reinforcement learning policies that can perform in-hand reorientation significantly faster than previous approaches for the complex setting of goal-conditioned reorientation in SO(3) with permanent force closure and tactile feedback only (i.e., using the hand's torque and position sensors). Moreover, we show how policies can be trained to be speed-adjustable, allowing for setting the average orientation speed of the manipulated object during deployment. To this end, we present suitable and minimalistic reinforcement learning objectives for time-optimal and speed-adjustable in-hand manipulation, as well as an analysis based on extensive experiments in simulation. We also demonstrate the zero-shot transfer of the learned policies to the real DLR-Hand II with a wide range of target speeds and the fastest dextrous in-hand manipulation without visual inputs.





## ReinFog: A DRL Empowered Framework for Resource Management in Edge and Cloud Computing Environments
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13121v1
- **Authors**: ['Zhiyu Wang', 'Mohammad Goudarzi', 'Rajkumar Buyya']
- **Abstrat**: The growing IoT landscape requires effective server deployment strategies to meet demands including real-time processing and energy efficiency. This is complicated by heterogeneous, dynamic applications and servers. To address these challenges, we propose ReinFog, a modular distributed software empowered with Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) for adaptive resource management across edge/fog and cloud environments. ReinFog enables the practical development/deployment of various centralized and distributed DRL techniques for resource management in edge/fog and cloud computing environments. It also supports integrating native and library-based DRL techniques for diverse IoT application scheduling objectives. Additionally, ReinFog allows for customizing deployment configurations for different DRL techniques, including the number and placement of DRL Learners and DRL Workers in large-scale distributed systems. Besides, we propose a novel Memetic Algorithm for DRL Component (e.g., DRL Learners and DRL Workers) Placement in ReinFog named MADCP, which combines the strengths of Genetic Algorithm, Firefly Algorithm, and Particle Swarm Optimization. Experiments reveal that the DRL mechanisms developed within ReinFog have significantly enhanced both centralized and distributed DRL techniques implementation. These advancements have resulted in notable improvements in IoT application performance, reducing response time by 45%, energy consumption by 39%, and weighted cost by 37%, while maintaining minimal scheduling overhead. Additionally, ReinFog exhibits remarkable scalability, with a rise in DRL Workers from 1 to 30 causing only a 0.3-second increase in startup time and around 2 MB more RAM per Worker. The proposed MADCP for DRL component placement further accelerates the convergence rate of DRL techniques by up to 38%.





## Provably Efficient Action-Manipulation Attack Against Continuous Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13116v1
- **Authors**: ['Zhi Luo', 'Xiyuan Yang', 'Pan Zhou', 'Di Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Manipulating the interaction trajectories between the intelligent agent and the environment can control the agent's training and behavior, exposing the potential vulnerabilities of reinforcement learning (RL). For example, in Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) controlled by RL, the attacker can manipulate the actions of the adopted RL to other actions during the training phase, which will lead to bad consequences. Existing work has studied action-manipulation attacks in tabular settings, where the states and actions are discrete. As seen in many up-and-coming RL applications, such as autonomous driving, continuous action space is widely accepted, however, its action-manipulation attacks have not been thoroughly investigated yet. In this paper, we consider this crucial problem in both white-box and black-box scenarios. Specifically, utilizing the knowledge derived exclusively from trajectories, we propose a black-box attack algorithm named LCBT, which uses the Monte Carlo tree search method for efficient action searching and manipulation. Additionally, we demonstrate that for an agent whose dynamic regret is sub-linearly related to the total number of steps, LCBT can teach the agent to converge to target policies with only sublinear attack cost, i.e., $O\left(\mathcal{R}(T) + MH^3K^E\log (MT)\right)(0<E<1)$, where $H$ is the number of steps per episode, $K$ is the total number of episodes, $T=KH$ is the total number of steps, $M$ is the number of subspaces divided in the state space, and $\mathcal{R}(T)$ is the bound of the RL algorithm's regret. We conduct our proposed attack methods on three aggressive algorithms: DDPG, PPO, and TD3 in continuous settings, which show a promising attack performance.





## DRL-Based Optimization for AoI and Energy Consumption in C-V2X Enabled IoV
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13104v1
- **Authors**: ['Zheng Zhang', 'Qiong Wu', 'Pingyi Fan', 'Nan Cheng', 'Wen Chen', 'Khaled B. Letaief']
- **Abstrat**: To address communication latency issues, the Third Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) has defined Cellular-Vehicle to Everything (C-V2X) technology, which includes Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) communication for direct vehicle-to-vehicle communication. However, this method requires vehicles to autonomously select communication resources based on the Semi-Persistent Scheduling (SPS) protocol, which may lead to collisions due to different vehicles sharing the same communication resources, thereby affecting communication effectiveness. Non-Orthogonal Multiple Access (NOMA) is considered a potential solution for handling large-scale vehicle communication, as it can enhance the Signal-to-Interference-plus-Noise Ratio (SINR) by employing Successive Interference Cancellation (SIC), thereby reducing the negative impact of communication collisions. When evaluating vehicle communication performance, traditional metrics such as reliability and transmission delay present certain contradictions. Introducing the new metric Age of Information (AoI) provides a more comprehensive evaluation of communication system. Additionally, to ensure service quality, user terminals need to possess high computational capabilities, which may lead to increased energy consumption, necessitating a trade-off between communication energy consumption and effectiveness. Given the complexity and dynamics of communication systems, Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) serves as an intelligent learning method capable of learning optimal strategies in dynamic environments. Therefore, this paper analyzes the effects of multi-priority queues and NOMA on AoI in the C-V2X vehicular communication system and proposes an energy consumption and AoI optimization method based on DRL. Finally, through comparative simulations with baseline methods, the proposed approach demonstrates its advances in terms of energy consumption and AoI.





## ESARM: 3D Emotional Speech-to-Animation via Reward Model from Automatically-Ranked Demonstrations
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13089v1
- **Authors**: ['Xulong Zhang', 'Xiaoyang Qu', 'Haoxiang Shi', 'Chunguang Xiao', 'Jianzong Wang']
- **Abstrat**: This paper proposes a novel 3D speech-to-animation (STA) generation framework designed to address the shortcomings of existing models in producing diverse and emotionally resonant animations. Current STA models often generate animations that lack emotional depth and variety, failing to align with human expectations. To overcome these limitations, we introduce a novel STA model coupled with a reward model. This combination enables the decoupling of emotion and content under audio conditions through a cross-coupling training approach. Additionally, we develop a training methodology that leverages automatic quality evaluation of generated facial animations to guide the reinforcement learning process. This methodology encourages the STA model to explore a broader range of possibilities, resulting in the generation of diverse and emotionally expressive facial animations of superior quality. We conduct extensive empirical experiments on a benchmark dataset, and the results validate the effectiveness of our proposed framework in generating high-quality, emotionally rich 3D animations that are better aligned with human preferences.





# TD3
## Provably Efficient Action-Manipulation Attack Against Continuous Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13116v1
- **Authors**: ['Zhi Luo', 'Xiyuan Yang', 'Pan Zhou', 'Di Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Manipulating the interaction trajectories between the intelligent agent and the environment can control the agent's training and behavior, exposing the potential vulnerabilities of reinforcement learning (RL). For example, in Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) controlled by RL, the attacker can manipulate the actions of the adopted RL to other actions during the training phase, which will lead to bad consequences. Existing work has studied action-manipulation attacks in tabular settings, where the states and actions are discrete. As seen in many up-and-coming RL applications, such as autonomous driving, continuous action space is widely accepted, however, its action-manipulation attacks have not been thoroughly investigated yet. In this paper, we consider this crucial problem in both white-box and black-box scenarios. Specifically, utilizing the knowledge derived exclusively from trajectories, we propose a black-box attack algorithm named LCBT, which uses the Monte Carlo tree search method for efficient action searching and manipulation. Additionally, we demonstrate that for an agent whose dynamic regret is sub-linearly related to the total number of steps, LCBT can teach the agent to converge to target policies with only sublinear attack cost, i.e., $O\left(\mathcal{R}(T) + MH^3K^E\log (MT)\right)(0<E<1)$, where $H$ is the number of steps per episode, $K$ is the total number of episodes, $T=KH$ is the total number of steps, $M$ is the number of subspaces divided in the state space, and $\mathcal{R}(T)$ is the bound of the RL algorithm's regret. We conduct our proposed attack methods on three aggressive algorithms: DDPG, PPO, and TD3 in continuous settings, which show a promising attack performance.





# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Dynamically Feasible Path Planning in Cluttered Environments via Reachable Bezier Polytopes
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.13507v1
- **Authors**: ['Noel Csomay-Shanklin', 'William D. Compton', 'Aaron D. Ames']
- **Abstrat**: The deployment of robotic systems in real world environments requires the ability to quickly produce paths through cluttered, non-convex spaces. These planned trajectories must be both kinematically feasible (i.e., collision free) and dynamically feasible (i.e., satisfy the underlying system dynamics), necessitating a consideration of both the free space and the dynamics of the robot in the path planning phase. In this work, we explore the application of reachable Bezier polytopes as an efficient tool for generating trajectories satisfying both kinematic and dynamic requirements. Furthermore, we demonstrate that by offloading specific computation tasks to the GPU, such an algorithm can meet tight real time requirements. We propose a layered control architecture that efficiently produces collision free and dynamically feasible paths for nonlinear control systems, and demonstrate the framework on the tasks of 3D hopping in a cluttered environment.




