# reinforcement learning
## Advances in Multi-agent Reinforcement Learning: Persistent Autonomy and Robot Learning Lab Report 2024
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.21088v1
- **Authors**: ['Reza Azadeh']
- **Abstrat**: Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL) approaches have emerged as popular solutions to address the general challenges of cooperation in multi-agent environments, where the success of achieving shared or individual goals critically depends on the coordination and collaboration between agents. However, existing cooperative MARL methods face several challenges intrinsic to multi-agent systems, such as the curse of dimensionality, non-stationarity, and the need for a global exploration strategy. Moreover, the presence of agents with constraints (e.g., limited battery life, restricted mobility) or distinct roles further exacerbates these challenges. This document provides an overview of recent advances in Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL) conducted at the Persistent Autonomy and Robot Learning (PeARL) lab at the University of Massachusetts Lowell. We briefly discuss various research directions and present a selection of approaches proposed in our most recent publications. For each proposed approach, we also highlight potential future directions to further advance the field.





## Learning Epidemiological Dynamics via the Finite Expression Method
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.21049v1
- **Authors**: ['Jianda Du', 'Senwei Liang', 'Chunmei Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Modeling and forecasting the spread of infectious diseases is essential for effective public health decision-making. Traditional epidemiological models rely on expert-defined frameworks to describe complex dynamics, while neural networks, despite their predictive power, often lack interpretability due to their ``black-box" nature. This paper introduces the Finite Expression Method, a symbolic learning framework that leverages reinforcement learning to derive explicit mathematical expressions for epidemiological dynamics. Through numerical experiments on both synthetic and real-world datasets, FEX demonstrates high accuracy in modeling and predicting disease spread, while uncovering explicit relationships among epidemiological variables. These results highlight FEX as a powerful tool for infectious disease modeling, combining interpretability with strong predictive performance to support practical applications in public health.





## Weber-Fechner Law in Temporal Difference learning derived from Control as Inference
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.21004v1
- **Authors**: ['Keiichiro Takahashi', 'Taisuke Kobayashi', 'Tomoya Yamanokuchi', 'Takamitsu Matsubara']
- **Abstrat**: This paper investigates a novel nonlinear update rule based on temporal difference (TD) errors in reinforcement learning (RL). The update rule in the standard RL states that the TD error is linearly proportional to the degree of updates, treating all rewards equally without no bias. On the other hand, the recent biological studies revealed that there are nonlinearities in the TD error and the degree of updates, biasing policies optimistic or pessimistic. Such biases in learning due to nonlinearities are expected to be useful and intentionally leftover features in biological learning. Therefore, this research explores a theoretical framework that can leverage the nonlinearity between the degree of the update and TD errors. To this end, we focus on a control as inference framework, since it is known as a generalized formulation encompassing various RL and optimal control methods. In particular, we investigate the uncomputable nonlinear term needed to be approximately excluded in the derivation of the standard RL from control as inference. By analyzing it, Weber-Fechner law (WFL) is found, namely, perception (a.k.a. the degree of updates) in response to stimulus change (a.k.a. TD error) is attenuated by increase in the stimulus intensity (a.k.a. the value function). To numerically reveal the utilities of WFL on RL, we then propose a practical implementation using a reward-punishment framework and modifying the definition of optimality. Analysis of this implementation reveals that two utilities can be expected i) to increase rewards to a certain level early, and ii) to sufficiently suppress punishment. We finally investigate and discuss the expected utilities through simulations and robot experiments. As a result, the proposed RL algorithm with WFL shows the expected utilities that accelerate the reward-maximizing startup and continue to suppress punishments during learning.





## LEASE: Offline Preference-based Reinforcement Learning with High Sample Efficiency
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.21001v1
- **Authors**: ['Xiao-Yin Liu', 'Guotao Li', 'Xiao-Hu Zhou', 'Zeng-Guang Hou']
- **Abstrat**: Offline preference-based reinforcement learning (PbRL) provides an effective way to overcome the challenges of designing reward and the high costs of online interaction. However, since labeling preference needs real-time human feedback, acquiring sufficient preference labels is challenging. To solve this, this paper proposes a offLine prEference-bAsed RL with high Sample Efficiency (LEASE) algorithm, where a learned transition model is leveraged to generate unlabeled preference data. Considering the pretrained reward model may generate incorrect labels for unlabeled data, we design an uncertainty-aware mechanism to ensure the performance of reward model, where only high confidence and low variance data are selected. Moreover, we provide the generalization bound of reward model to analyze the factors influencing reward accuracy, and demonstrate that the policy learned by LEASE has theoretical improvement guarantee. The developed theory is based on state-action pair, which can be easily combined with other offline algorithms. The experimental results show that LEASE can achieve comparable performance to baseline under fewer preference data without online interaction.





## UnrealZoo: Enriching Photo-realistic Virtual Worlds for Embodied AI
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20977v1
- **Authors**: ['Fangwei Zhong', 'Kui Wu', 'Churan Wang', 'Hao Chen', 'Hai Ci', 'Zhoujun Li', 'Yizhou Wang']
- **Abstrat**: We introduce UnrealZoo, a rich collection of photo-realistic 3D virtual worlds built on Unreal Engine, designed to reflect the complexity and variability of the open worlds. Additionally, we offer a variety of playable entities for embodied AI agents. Based on UnrealCV, we provide a suite of easy-to-use Python APIs and tools for various potential applications, such as data collection, environment augmentation, distributed training, and benchmarking. We optimize the rendering and communication efficiency of UnrealCV to support advanced applications, such as multi-agent interaction. Our experiments benchmark agents in various complex scenes, focusing on visual navigation and tracking, which are fundamental capabilities for embodied visual intelligence. The results yield valuable insights into the advantages of diverse training environments for reinforcement learning (RL) agents and the challenges faced by current embodied vision agents, including those based on RL and large vision-language models (VLMs), in open worlds. These challenges involve latency in closed-loop control in dynamic scenes and reasoning about 3D spatial structures in unstructured terrain.





## On Reward Transferability in Adversarial Inverse Reinforcement Learning: Insights from Random Matrix Theory
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.07643v2
- **Authors**: ['Yangchun Zhang', 'Wang Zhou', 'Yirui Zhou']
- **Abstrat**: In the context of inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) with a single expert, adversarial inverse reinforcement learning (AIRL) serves as a foundational approach to providing comprehensive and transferable task descriptions. However, AIRL faces practical performance challenges, primarily stemming from the framework's overly idealized decomposability condition, the unclear proof regarding the potential equilibrium in reward recovery, or questionable robustness in high-dimensional environments. This paper revisits AIRL in \textbf{high-dimensional scenarios where the state space tends to infinity}. Specifically, we first establish a necessary and sufficient condition for reward transferability by examining the rank of the matrix derived from subtracting the identity matrix from the transition matrix. Furthermore, leveraging random matrix theory, we analyze the spectral distribution of this matrix, demonstrating that our rank criterion holds with high probability even when the transition matrices are unobservable. This suggests that the limitations on transfer are not inherent to the AIRL framework itself, but are instead related to the training variance of the reinforcement learning algorithms employed within it. Based on this insight, we propose a hybrid framework that integrates on-policy proximal policy optimization in the source environment with off-policy soft actor-critic in the target environment, leading to significant improvements in reward transfer effectiveness.





## Data-Based Efficient Off-Policy Stabilizing Optimal Control Algorithms for Discrete-Time Linear Systems via Damping Coefficients
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20845v1
- **Authors**: ['Dongdong Li', 'Jiuxiang Dong']
- **Abstrat**: Policy iteration is one of the classical frameworks of reinforcement learning, which requires a known initial stabilizing control. However, finding the initial stabilizing control depends on the known system model. To relax this requirement and achieve model-free optimal control, in this paper, two different reinforcement learning algorithms based on policy iteration and variable damping coefficients are designed for unknown discrete-time linear systems. First, a stable artificial system is designed, and this system is gradually iterated to the original system by varying the damping coefficients. This allows the initial stabilizing control to be obtained in a finite number of iteration steps. Then, an off-policy iteration algorithm and an off-policy $\mathcal{Q}$-learning algorithm are designed to select the appropriate damping coefficients and realize data-driven. In these two algorithms, the current estimates of optimal control gain are not applied to the system to re-collect data. Moreover, they are characterized by the fast convergence of the traditional policy iteration. Finally, the proposed algorithms are validated by simulation.





## Isoperimetry is All We Need: Langevin Posterior Sampling for RL with Sublinear Regret
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20824v1
- **Authors**: ['Emilio Jorge', 'Christos Dimitrakakis', 'Debabrota Basu']
- **Abstrat**: In Reinforcement Learning (RL) theory, we impose restrictive assumptions to design an algorithm with provably sublinear regret. Common assumptions, like linear or RKHS models, and Gaussian or log-concave posteriors over the models, do not explain practical success of RL across a wider range of distributions and models. Thus, we study how to design RL algorithms with sublinear regret for isoperimetric distributions, specifically the ones satisfying the Log-Sobolev Inequality (LSI). LSI distributions include the standard setups of RL and others, such as many non-log-concave and perturbed distributions. First, we show that the Posterior Sampling-based RL (PSRL) yields sublinear regret if the data distributions satisfy LSI under some mild additional assumptions. Also, when we cannot compute or sample from an exact posterior, we propose a Langevin sampling-based algorithm design: LaPSRL. We show that LaPSRL achieves order optimal regret and subquadratic complexity per episode. Finally, we deploy LaPSRL with a Langevin sampler -- SARAH-LD, and test it for different bandit and MDP environments. Experimental results validate the generality of LaPSRL across environments and its competitive performance with respect to the baselines.





## AIR: Unifying Individual and Collective Exploration in Cooperative Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15700v2
- **Authors**: ['Guangchong Zhou', 'Zeren Zhang', 'Guoliang Fan']
- **Abstrat**: Exploration in cooperative multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) remains challenging for value-based agents due to the absence of an explicit policy. Existing approaches include individual exploration based on uncertainty towards the system and collective exploration through behavioral diversity among agents. However, the introduction of additional structures often leads to reduced training efficiency and infeasible integration of these methods. In this paper, we propose Adaptive exploration via Identity Recognition~(AIR), which consists of two adversarial components: a classifier that recognizes agent identities from their trajectories, and an action selector that adaptively adjusts the mode and degree of exploration. We theoretically prove that AIR can facilitate both individual and collective exploration during training, and experiments also demonstrate the efficiency and effectiveness of AIR across various tasks.





## Align Anything: Training All-Modality Models to Follow Instructions with Language Feedback
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15838v2
- **Authors**: ['Jiaming Ji', 'Jiayi Zhou', 'Hantao Lou', 'Boyuan Chen', 'Donghai Hong', 'Xuyao Wang', 'Wenqi Chen', 'Kaile Wang', 'Rui Pan', 'Jiahao Li', 'Mohan Wang', 'Josef Dai', 'Tianyi Qiu', 'Hua Xu', 'Dong Li', 'Weipeng Chen', 'Jun Song', 'Bo Zheng', 'Yaodong Yang']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) has proven effective in enhancing the instruction-following capabilities of large language models; however, it remains underexplored in the cross-modality domain. As the number of modalities increases, aligning all-modality models with human intentions --such as instruction following -- becomes a pressing challenge. In this work, we make the first attempt to fine-tune all-modality models (i.e. input and output with any modality, also named any-to-any models) using human preference data across all modalities (including text, image, audio, and video), ensuring its behavior aligns with human intentions. This endeavor presents several challenges. First, there is no large-scale all-modality human preference data in existing open-source resources, as most datasets are limited to specific modalities, predominantly text and image. Secondly, the effectiveness of binary preferences in RLHF for post-training alignment in complex all-modality scenarios remains an unexplored area. Finally, there is a lack of a systematic framework to evaluate the capabilities of all-modality models, particularly regarding modality selection and synergy. To address these challenges, we propose the align-anything framework, which includes meticulously annotated 200k all-modality human preference data. Then, we introduce an alignment method that learns from unified language feedback, effectively capturing complex modality-specific human preferences and enhancing the model's instruction-following capabilities. Furthermore, to assess performance improvements in all-modality models after post-training alignment, we construct a challenging all-modality capability evaluation framework -- eval-anything. All data, models, and code frameworks have been open-sourced for the community. For more details, please refer to https://github.com/PKU-Alignment/align-anything.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## KARPA: A Training-free Method of Adapting Knowledge Graph as References for Large Language Model's Reasoning Path Aggregation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.20995v1
- **Authors**: ['Siyuan Fang', 'Kaijing Ma', 'Tianyu Zheng', 'Xinrun Du', 'Ningxuan Lu', 'Ge Zhang', 'Qingkun Tang']
- **Abstrat**: Large language models (LLMs) demonstrate exceptional performance across a variety of tasks, yet they are often affected by hallucinations and the timeliness of knowledge. Leveraging knowledge graphs (KGs) as external knowledge sources has emerged as a viable solution, but existing methods for LLM-based knowledge graph question answering (KGQA) are often limited by step-by-step decision-making on KGs, restricting the global planning and reasoning capabilities of LLMs, or they require fine-tuning or pre-training on specific KGs. To address these challenges, we propose Knowledge graph Assisted Reasoning Path Aggregation (KARPA), a novel framework that harnesses the global planning abilities of LLMs for efficient and accurate KG reasoning. KARPA operates in three steps: pre-planning relation paths using the LLM's global planning capabilities, matching semantically relevant paths via an embedding model, and reasoning over these paths to generate answers. Unlike existing KGQA methods, KARPA avoids stepwise traversal, requires no additional training, and is adaptable to various LLM architectures. Extensive experimental results show that KARPA achieves state-of-the-art performance in KGQA tasks, delivering both high efficiency and accuracy. Our code will be available on Github.




