# reinforcement learning
## PID Accelerated Temporal Difference Algorithms
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.08803v2
- **Authors**: ['Mark Bedaywi', 'Amin Rakhsha', 'Amir-massoud Farahmand']
- **Abstrat**: Long-horizon tasks, which have a large discount factor, pose a challenge for most conventional reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms. Algorithms such as Value Iteration and Temporal Difference (TD) learning have a slow convergence rate and become inefficient in these tasks. When the transition distributions are given, PID VI was recently introduced to accelerate the convergence of Value Iteration using ideas from control theory. Inspired by this, we introduce PID TD Learning and PID Q-Learning algorithms for the RL setting, in which only samples from the environment are available. We give a theoretical analysis of the convergence of PID TD Learning and its acceleration compared to the conventional TD Learning. We also introduce a method for adapting PID gains in the presence of noise and empirically verify its effectiveness.





## Agent-Agnostic Centralized Training for Decentralized Multi-Agent Cooperative Driving
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11914v2
- **Authors**: ['Shengchao Yan', 'Lukas König', 'Wolfram Burgard']
- **Abstrat**: Active traffic management with autonomous vehicles offers the potential for reduced congestion and improved traffic flow. However, developing effective algorithms for real-world scenarios requires overcoming challenges related to infinite-horizon traffic flow and partial observability. To address these issues and further decentralize traffic management, we propose an asymmetric actor-critic model that learns decentralized cooperative driving policies for autonomous vehicles using single-agent reinforcement learning. By employing attention neural networks with masking, our approach efficiently manages real-world traffic dynamics and partial observability, eliminating the need for predefined agents or agent-specific experience buffers in multi-agent reinforcement learning. Extensive evaluations across various traffic scenarios demonstrate our method's significant potential in improving traffic flow at critical bottleneck points. Moreover, we address the challenges posed by conservative autonomous vehicle driving behaviors that adhere strictly to traffic rules, showing that our cooperative policy effectively alleviates potential slowdowns without compromising safety.





## RLAIF vs. RLHF: Scaling Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback with AI Feedback
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2309.00267v3
- **Authors**: ['Harrison Lee', 'Samrat Phatale', 'Hassan Mansoor', 'Thomas Mesnard', 'Johan Ferret', 'Kellie Lu', 'Colton Bishop', 'Ethan Hall', 'Victor Carbune', 'Abhinav Rastogi', 'Sushant Prakash']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) has proven effective in aligning large language models (LLMs) with human preferences, but gathering high-quality preference labels is expensive. RL from AI Feedback (RLAIF), introduced in Bai et al., offers a promising alternative that trains the reward model (RM) on preferences generated by an off-the-shelf LLM. Across the tasks of summarization, helpful dialogue generation, and harmless dialogue generation, we show that RLAIF achieves comparable performance to RLHF. Furthermore, we take a step towards "self-improvement" by demonstrating that RLAIF can outperform a supervised fine-tuned baseline even when the AI labeler is the same size as the policy, or even the exact same checkpoint as the initial policy. Finally, we introduce direct-RLAIF (d-RLAIF) - a technique that circumvents RM training by obtaining rewards directly from an off-the-shelf LLM during RL, which achieves superior performance to canonical RLAIF. Our results suggest that RLAIF can achieve performance on-par with using human feedback, offering a potential solution to the scalability limitations of RLHF.





## Unitary Synthesis of Clifford+T Circuits with Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.14865v4
- **Authors**: ['Sebastian Rietsch', 'Abhishek Y. Dubey', 'Christian Ufrecht', 'Maniraman Periyasamy', 'Axel Plinge', 'Christopher Mutschler', 'Daniel D. Scherer']
- **Abstrat**: This paper presents a deep reinforcement learning approach for synthesizing unitaries into quantum circuits. Unitary synthesis aims to identify a quantum circuit that represents a given unitary while minimizing circuit depth, total gate count, a specific gate count, or a combination of these factors. While past research has focused predominantly on continuous gate sets, synthesizing unitaries from the parameter-free Clifford+T gate set remains a challenge. Although the time complexity of this task will inevitably remain exponential in the number of qubits for general unitaries, reducing the runtime for simple problem instances still poses a significant challenge. In this study, we apply the tree-search method Gumbel AlphaZero to solve the problem for a subset of exactly synthesizable Clifford+T unitaries. Our method effectively synthesizes circuits for up to five qubits generated from randomized circuits with up to 60 gates, outperforming existing tools like QuantumCircuitOpt and MIN-T-SYNTH in terms of synthesis time for larger qubit counts. Furthermore, it surpasses Synthetiq in successfully synthesizing random, exactly synthesizable unitaries. These results establish a strong baseline for future unitary synthesis algorithms.





## Statistical Context Detection for Deep Lifelong Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.19047v2
- **Authors**: ['Jeffery Dick', 'Saptarshi Nath', 'Christos Peridis', 'Eseoghene Benjamin', 'Soheil Kolouri', 'Andrea Soltoggio']
- **Abstrat**: Context detection involves labeling segments of an online stream of data as belonging to different tasks. Task labels are used in lifelong learning algorithms to perform consolidation or other procedures that prevent catastrophic forgetting. Inferring task labels from online experiences remains a challenging problem. Most approaches assume finite and low-dimension observation spaces or a preliminary training phase during which task labels are learned. Moreover, changes in the transition or reward functions can be detected only in combination with a policy, and therefore are more difficult to detect than changes in the input distribution. This paper presents an approach to learning both policies and labels in an online deep reinforcement learning setting. The key idea is to use distance metrics, obtained via optimal transport methods, i.e., Wasserstein distance, on suitable latent action-reward spaces to measure distances between sets of data points from past and current streams. Such distances can then be used for statistical tests based on an adapted Kolmogorov-Smirnov calculation to assign labels to sequences of experiences. A rollback procedure is introduced to learn multiple policies by ensuring that only the appropriate data is used to train the corresponding policy. The combination of task detection and policy deployment allows for the optimization of lifelong reinforcement learning agents without an oracle that provides task labels. The approach is tested using two benchmarks and the results show promising performance when compared with related context detection algorithms. The results suggest that optimal transport statistical methods provide an explainable and justifiable procedure for online context detection and reward optimization in lifelong reinforcement learning.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Expansion-GRR: Efficient Generation of Smooth Global Redundancy Resolution Roadmaps
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.13770v2
- **Authors**: ['Zhuoyun Zhong', 'Zhi Li', 'Constantinos Chamzas']
- **Abstrat**: Global redundancy resolution (GRR) roadmaps is a novel concept in robotics that facilitates the mapping from task space paths to configuration space paths in a legible, predictable, and repeatable way. Such roadmaps could find widespread utility in applications such as safe teleoperation, consistent path planning, and motion primitives generation. However, previous methods to compute GRR roadmaps often necessitate a lengthy computation time and produce non-smooth paths, limiting their practical efficacy. To address this challenge, we introduce a novel method Expansion-GRR that leverages efficient configuration space projections and enables rapid generation of smooth roadmaps that satisfy the task constraints. Additionally, we propose a simple multi-seed strategy that further enhances the final quality. We conducted experiments in simulation with a 5-link planar manipulator and a Kinova arm. We were able to generate the Expansion-GRR roadmaps up to 2 orders of magnitude faster while achieving higher smoothness. We also demonstrate the utility of the GRR roadmaps in teleoperation tasks where our method outperformed prior methods and reactive IK solvers in terms of success rate and solution quality.




