# reinforcement learning
## Evaluation of Active Feature Acquisition Methods for Time-varying Feature Settings
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01530v3
- **Authors**: ['Henrik von Kleist', 'Alireza Zamanian', 'Ilya Shpitser', 'Narges Ahmidi']
- **Abstrat**: Machine learning methods often assume that input features are available at no cost. However, in domains like healthcare, where acquiring features could be expensive or harmful, it is necessary to balance a feature's acquisition cost against its predictive value. The task of training an AI agent to decide which features to acquire is called active feature acquisition (AFA). By deploying an AFA agent, we effectively alter the acquisition strategy and trigger a distribution shift. To safely deploy AFA agents under this distribution shift, we present the problem of active feature acquisition performance evaluation (AFAPE). We examine AFAPE under i) a no direct effect (NDE) assumption, stating that acquisitions do not affect the underlying feature values; and ii) a no unobserved confounding (NUC) assumption, stating that retrospective feature acquisition decisions were only based on observed features. We show that one can apply missing data methods under the NDE assumption and offline reinforcement learning under the NUC assumption. When NUC and NDE hold, we propose a novel semi-offline reinforcement learning framework. This framework requires a weaker positivity assumption and introduces three new estimators: A direct method (DM), an inverse probability weighting (IPW), and a double reinforcement learning (DRL) estimator.





## When Your AIs Deceive You: Challenges of Partial Observability in Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.17747v4
- **Authors**: ['Leon Lang', 'Davis Foote', 'Stuart Russell', 'Anca Dragan', 'Erik Jenner', 'Scott Emmons']
- **Abstrat**: Past analyses of reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) assume that the human evaluators fully observe the environment. What happens when human feedback is based only on partial observations? We formally define two failure cases: deceptive inflation and overjustification. Modeling the human as Boltzmann-rational w.r.t. a belief over trajectories, we prove conditions under which RLHF is guaranteed to result in policies that deceptively inflate their performance, overjustify their behavior to make an impression, or both. Under the new assumption that the human's partial observability is known and accounted for, we then analyze how much information the feedback process provides about the return function. We show that sometimes, the human's feedback determines the return function uniquely up to an additive constant, but in other realistic cases, there is irreducible ambiguity. We propose exploratory research directions to help tackle these challenges, experimentally validate both the theoretical concerns and potential mitigations, and caution against blindly applying RLHF in partially observable settings.





## Teaching Models to Improve on Tape
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.01483v2
- **Authors**: ['Liat Bezalel', 'Eyal Orgad', 'Amir Globerson']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) often struggle when prompted to generate content under specific constraints. However, in such cases it is often easy to check whether these constraints are satisfied or violated. Recent works have shown that LLMs can benefit from such ``corrective feedback''. Here we claim that this skill of LLMs can be significantly enhanced via training. We introduce an RL framework for teaching models to use such rewards, by simulating interaction sessions, and rewarding the model according to its ability to satisfy the constraints. We refer to our method as CORGI (Controlled Generation with RL for Guided Interaction), and evaluate it on a variety of controlled generation tasks using unlabeled training data. We find that CORGI consistently outperforms the baseline reinforcement learning method that does not incorporate conversational feedback. Furthermore, CORGI's interactive framework enables meta-learning, allowing the LLM to generalize better to guided interaction in new tasks. Our results clearly show that conversational optimization, when combined with reinforcement learning, significantly improves the effectiveness of LLMs in controlled generation contexts.





## AI-Driven approach for sustainable extraction of earth's subsurface renewable energy while minimizing seismic activity
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.03664v2
- **Authors**: ['Diego Gutierrez-Oribio', 'Alexandros Stathas', 'Ioannis Stefanou']
- **Abstrat**: Deep Geothermal Energy, Carbon Capture and Storage, and Hydrogen Storage hold considerable promise for meeting the energy sector's large-scale requirements and reducing CO$_2$ emissions. However, the injection of fluids into the Earth's crust, essential for these activities, can induce or trigger earthquakes. In this paper, we highlight a new approach based on Reinforcement Learning for the control of human-induced seismicity in the highly complex environment of an underground reservoir. This complex system poses significant challenges in the control design due to parameter uncertainties and unmodeled dynamics. We show that the reinforcement learning algorithm can interact efficiently with a robust controller, by choosing the controller parameters in real-time, reducing human-induced seismicity and allowing the consideration of further production objectives, \textit{e.g.}, minimal control power. Simulations are presented for a simplified underground reservoir under various energy demand scenarios, demonstrating the reliability and effectiveness of the proposed control-reinforcement learning approach.





## Pre-trained Visual Dynamics Representations for Efficient Policy Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.03169v1
- **Authors**: ['Hao Luo', 'Bohan Zhou', 'Zongqing Lu']
- **Abstrat**: Pre-training for Reinforcement Learning (RL) with purely video data is a valuable yet challenging problem. Although in-the-wild videos are readily available and inhere a vast amount of prior world knowledge, the absence of action annotations and the common domain gap with downstream tasks hinder utilizing videos for RL pre-training. To address the challenge of pre-training with videos, we propose Pre-trained Visual Dynamics Representations (PVDR) to bridge the domain gap between videos and downstream tasks for efficient policy learning. By adopting video prediction as a pre-training task, we use a Transformer-based Conditional Variational Autoencoder (CVAE) to learn visual dynamics representations. The pre-trained visual dynamics representations capture the visual dynamics prior knowledge in the videos. This abstract prior knowledge can be readily adapted to downstream tasks and aligned with executable actions through online adaptation. We conduct experiments on a series of robotics visual control tasks and verify that PVDR is an effective form for pre-training with videos to promote policy learning.





## Skill-aware Mutual Information Optimisation for Generalisation in Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04815v2
- **Authors**: ['Xuehui Yu', 'Mhairi Dunion', 'Xin Li', 'Stefano V. Albrecht']
- **Abstrat**: Meta-Reinforcement Learning (Meta-RL) agents can struggle to operate across tasks with varying environmental features that require different optimal skills (i.e., different modes of behaviour). Using context encoders based on contrastive learning to enhance the generalisability of Meta-RL agents is now widely studied but faces challenges such as the requirement for a large sample size, also referred to as the $\log$-$K$ curse. To improve RL generalisation to different tasks, we first introduce Skill-aware Mutual Information (SaMI), an optimisation objective that aids in distinguishing context embeddings according to skills, thereby equipping RL agents with the ability to identify and execute different skills across tasks. We then propose Skill-aware Noise Contrastive Estimation (SaNCE), a $K$-sample estimator used to optimise the SaMI objective. We provide a framework for equipping an RL agent with SaNCE in practice and conduct experimental validation on modified MuJoCo and Panda-gym benchmarks. We empirically find that RL agents that learn by maximising SaMI achieve substantially improved zero-shot generalisation to unseen tasks. Additionally, the context encoder trained with SaNCE demonstrates greater robustness to a reduction in the number of available samples, thus possessing the potential to overcome the $\log$-$K$ curse.





## On the Global Convergence of Risk-Averse Policy Gradient Methods with Expected Conditional Risk Measures
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2301.10932v3
- **Authors**: ['Xian Yu', 'Lei Ying']
- **Abstrat**: Risk-sensitive reinforcement learning (RL) has become a popular tool for controlling the risk of uncertain outcomes and ensuring reliable performance in highly stochastic sequential decision-making problems. While Policy Gradient (PG) methods have been developed for risk-sensitive RL, it remains unclear if these methods enjoy the same global convergence guarantees as in the risk-neutral case \citep{mei2020global,agarwal2021theory,cen2022fast,bhandari2024global}. In this paper, we consider a class of dynamic time-consistent risk measures, named Expected Conditional Risk Measures (ECRMs), and derive PG and Natural Policy Gradient (NPG) updates for ECRMs-based RL problems. We provide global optimality {and iteration complexities} of the proposed algorithms under the following four settings: (i) PG with constrained direct parameterization, (ii) PG with softmax parameterization and log barrier regularization, (iii) NPG with softmax parameterization and entropy regularization, and (iv) approximate NPG with inexact policy evaluation. Furthermore, we test a risk-averse REINFORCE algorithm \citep{williams1992simple} and a risk-averse NPG algorithm \citep{kakade2001natural} on a stochastic Cliffwalk environment to demonstrate the efficacy of our methods and the importance of risk control.





## Reinforcement Learning with Lie Group Orientations for Robotics
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.11935v2
- **Authors**: ['Martin Schuck', 'Jan Brüdigam', 'Sandra Hirche', 'Angela Schoellig']
- **Abstrat**: Handling orientations of robots and objects is a crucial aspect of many applications. Yet, ever so often, there is a lack of mathematical correctness when dealing with orientations, especially in learning pipelines involving, for example, artificial neural networks. In this paper, we investigate reinforcement learning with orientations and propose a simple modification of the network's input and output that adheres to the Lie group structure of orientations. As a result, we obtain an easy and efficient implementation that is directly usable with existing learning libraries and achieves significantly better performance than other common orientation representations. We briefly introduce Lie theory specifically for orientations in robotics to motivate and outline our approach. Subsequently, a thorough empirical evaluation of different combinations of orientation representations for states and actions demonstrates the superior performance of our proposed approach in different scenarios, including: direct orientation control, end effector orientation control, and pick-and-place tasks.





## Hierarchical Orchestra of Policies
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.03008v1
- **Authors**: ['Thomas P Cannon', 'Özgür Simsek']
- **Abstrat**: Continual reinforcement learning poses a major challenge due to the tendency of agents to experience catastrophic forgetting when learning sequential tasks. In this paper, we introduce a modularity-based approach, called Hierarchical Orchestra of Policies (HOP), designed to mitigate catastrophic forgetting in lifelong reinforcement learning. HOP dynamically forms a hierarchy of policies based on a similarity metric between the current observations and previously encountered observations in successful tasks. Unlike other state-of-the-art methods, HOP does not require task labelling, allowing for robust adaptation in environments where boundaries between tasks are ambiguous. Our experiments, conducted across multiple tasks in a procedurally generated suite of environments, demonstrate that HOP significantly outperforms baseline methods in retaining knowledge across tasks and performs comparably to state-of-the-art transfer methods that require task labelling. Moreover, HOP achieves this without compromising performance when tasks remain constant, highlighting its versatility.





## Accelerating Task Generalisation with Multi-Level Hierarchical Options
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02998v1
- **Authors**: ['Thomas P Cannon', 'Özgür Simsek']
- **Abstrat**: Creating reinforcement learning agents that generalise effectively to new tasks is a key challenge in AI research. This paper introduces Fracture Cluster Options (FraCOs), a multi-level hierarchical reinforcement learning method that achieves state-of-the-art performance on difficult generalisation tasks. FraCOs identifies patterns in agent behaviour and forms options based on the expected future usefulness of those patterns, enabling rapid adaptation to new tasks. In tabular settings, FraCOs demonstrates effective transfer and improves performance as it grows in hierarchical depth. We evaluate FraCOs against state-of-the-art deep reinforcement learning algorithms in several complex procedurally generated environments. Our results show that FraCOs achieves higher in-distribution and out-of-distribution performance than competitors.





## Autonomous Decision Making for UAV Cooperative Pursuit-Evasion Game with Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02983v1
- **Authors**: ['Yang Zhao', 'Zidong Nie', 'Kangsheng Dong', 'Qinghua Huang', 'Xuelong Li']
- **Abstrat**: The application of intelligent decision-making in unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) is increasing, and with the development of UAV 1v1 pursuit-evasion game, multi-UAV cooperative game has emerged as a new challenge. This paper proposes a deep reinforcement learning-based model for decision-making in multi-role UAV cooperative pursuit-evasion game, to address the challenge of enabling UAV to autonomously make decisions in complex game environments. In order to enhance the training efficiency of the reinforcement learning algorithm in UAV pursuit-evasion game environment that has high-dimensional state-action space, this paper proposes multi-environment asynchronous double deep Q-network with priority experience replay algorithm to effectively train the UAV's game policy. Furthermore, aiming to improve cooperation ability and task completion efficiency, as well as minimize the cost of UAVs in the pursuit-evasion game, this paper focuses on the allocation of roles and targets within multi-UAV environment. The cooperative game decision model with varying numbers of UAVs are obtained by assigning diverse tasks and roles to the UAVs in different scenarios. The simulation results demonstrate that the proposed method enables autonomous decision-making of the UAVs in pursuit-evasion game scenarios and exhibits significant capabilities in cooperation.





## Transformer-Based Fault-Tolerant Control for Fixed-Wing UAVs Using Knowledge Distillation and In-Context Adaptation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02975v1
- **Authors**: ['Francisco Giral', 'Ignacio Gómez', 'Ricardo Vinuesa', 'Soledad Le-Clainche']
- **Abstrat**: This study presents a transformer-based approach for fault-tolerant control in fixed-wing Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), designed to adapt in real time to dynamic changes caused by structural damage or actuator failures. Unlike traditional Flight Control Systems (FCSs) that rely on classical control theory and struggle under severe alterations in dynamics, our method directly maps outer-loop reference values -- altitude, heading, and airspeed -- into control commands using the in-context learning and attention mechanisms of transformers, thus bypassing inner-loop controllers and fault-detection layers. Employing a teacher-student knowledge distillation framework, the proposed approach trains a student agent with partial observations by transferring knowledge from a privileged expert agent with full observability, enabling robust performance across diverse failure scenarios. Experimental results demonstrate that our transformer-based controller outperforms industry-standard FCS and state-of-the-art reinforcement learning (RL) methods, maintaining high tracking accuracy and stability in nominal conditions and extreme failure cases, highlighting its potential for enhancing UAV operational safety and reliability.





## Embedding Safety into RL: A New Take on Trust Region Methods
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02957v1
- **Authors**: ['Nikola Milosevic', 'Johannes Müller', 'Nico Scherf']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement Learning (RL) agents are able to solve a wide variety of tasks but are prone to producing unsafe behaviors. Constrained Markov Decision Processes (CMDPs) provide a popular framework for incorporating safety constraints. However, common solution methods often compromise reward maximization by being overly conservative or allow unsafe behavior during training. We propose Constrained Trust Region Policy Optimization (C-TRPO), a novel approach that modifies the geometry of the policy space based on the safety constraints and yields trust regions composed exclusively of safe policies, ensuring constraint satisfaction throughout training. We theoretically study the convergence and update properties of C-TRPO and highlight connections to TRPO, Natural Policy Gradient (NPG), and Constrained Policy Optimization (CPO). Finally, we demonstrate experimentally that C-TRPO significantly reduces constraint violations while achieving competitive reward maximization compared to state-of-the-art CMDP algorithms.





## Deterministic Exploration via Stationary Bellman Error Maximization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23840v2
- **Authors**: ['Sebastian Griesbach', "Carlo D'Eramo"]
- **Abstrat**: Exploration is a crucial and distinctive aspect of reinforcement learning (RL) that remains a fundamental open problem. Several methods have been proposed to tackle this challenge. Commonly used methods inject random noise directly into the actions, indirectly via entropy maximization, or add intrinsic rewards that encourage the agent to steer to novel regions of the state space. Another previously seen idea is to use the Bellman error as a separate optimization objective for exploration. In this paper, we introduce three modifications to stabilize the latter and arrive at a deterministic exploration policy. Our separate exploration agent is informed about the state of the exploitation, thus enabling it to account for previous experiences. Further components are introduced to make the exploration objective agnostic toward the episode length and to mitigate instability introduced by far-off-policy learning. Our experimental results show that our approach can outperform $\varepsilon$-greedy in dense and sparse reward settings.





## AGILE: A Novel Reinforcement Learning Framework of LLM Agents
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.14751v2
- **Authors**: ['Peiyuan Feng', 'Yichen He', 'Guanhua Huang', 'Yuan Lin', 'Hanchong Zhang', 'Yuchen Zhang', 'Hang Li']
- **Abstrat**: We introduce a novel reinforcement learning framework of LLM agents named AGILE (AGent that Interacts and Learns from Environments) designed to perform complex conversational tasks with users, leveraging LLMs, memory, tools, and interactions with experts. The agent possesses capabilities beyond conversation, including reflection, tool usage, and expert consultation. We formulate the construction of such an LLM agent as a reinforcement learning (RL) problem, in which the LLM serves as the policy model. We fine-tune the LLM using labeled data of actions and the PPO algorithm. We focus on question answering and release a dataset for agents called ProductQA, comprising challenging questions in online shopping. Our extensive experiments on ProductQA, MedMCQA and HotPotQA show that AGILE agents based on 7B and 13B LLMs trained with PPO can outperform GPT-4 agents. Our ablation study highlights the indispensability of memory, tools, consultation, reflection, and reinforcement learning in achieving the agent's strong performance. Datasets and code are available at https://github.com/bytarnish/AGILE.





## Global Convergence Guarantees for Federated Policy Gradient Methods with Adversaries
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.09940v2
- **Authors**: ['Swetha Ganesh', 'Jiayu Chen', 'Gugan Thoppe', 'Vaneet Aggarwal']
- **Abstrat**: Federated Reinforcement Learning (FRL) allows multiple agents to collaboratively build a decision making policy without sharing raw trajectories. However, if a small fraction of these agents are adversarial, it can lead to catastrophic results. We propose a policy gradient based approach that is robust to adversarial agents which can send arbitrary values to the server. Under this setting, our results form the first global convergence guarantees with general parametrization. These results demonstrate resilience with adversaries, while achieving optimal sample complexity of order $\tilde{\mathcal{O}}\left( \frac{1}{N\epsilon^2} \left( 1+ \frac{f^2}{N}\right)\right)$, where $N$ is the total number of agents and $f<N/2$ is the number of adversarial agents.





## Self-Exploring Language Models: Active Preference Elicitation for Online Alignment
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.19332v3
- **Authors**: ['Shenao Zhang', 'Donghan Yu', 'Hiteshi Sharma', 'Han Zhong', 'Zhihan Liu', 'Ziyi Yang', 'Shuohang Wang', 'Hany Hassan', 'Zhaoran Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Preference optimization, particularly through Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF), has achieved significant success in aligning Large Language Models (LLMs) to adhere to human intentions. Unlike offline alignment with a fixed dataset, online feedback collection from humans or AI on model generations typically leads to more capable reward models and better-aligned LLMs through an iterative process. However, achieving a globally accurate reward model requires systematic exploration to generate diverse responses that span the vast space of natural language. Random sampling from standard reward-maximizing LLMs alone is insufficient to fulfill this requirement. To address this issue, we propose a bilevel objective optimistically biased towards potentially high-reward responses to actively explore out-of-distribution regions. By solving the inner-level problem with the reparameterized reward function, the resulting algorithm, named Self-Exploring Language Models (SELM), eliminates the need for a separate RM and iteratively updates the LLM with a straightforward objective. Compared to Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), the SELM objective reduces indiscriminate favor of unseen extrapolations and enhances exploration efficiency. Our experimental results demonstrate that when fine-tuned on Zephyr-7B-SFT and Llama-3-8B-Instruct models, SELM significantly boosts the performance on instruction-following benchmarks such as MT-Bench and AlpacaEval 2.0, as well as various standard academic benchmarks in different settings. Our code and models are available at https://github.com/shenao-zhang/SELM.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Resilient Movement Planning for Continuum Robots
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.06178v2
- **Authors**: ['Oxana Shamilyan', 'Ievgen Kabin', 'Zoya Dyka', 'Peter Langendoerfer']
- **Abstrat**: The paper presents an experimental study of resilient path planning for con-tinuum robots taking into account the multi-objective optimisation problem. To do this, we used two well-known algorithms, namely Genetic algorithm and A* algorithm, for path planning and the Analytical Hierarchy Process algorithm for paths evaluation. In our experiment Analytical Hierarchy Process algorithm considers four different criteria, i.e. distance, motors damage, mechanical damage and accuracy each considered to contribute to the resilience of a continuum robot. The use of different criteria is necessary to increasing the time to maintenance operations of the robot. The experiment shows that on the one hand both algorithms can be used in combination with Analytical Hierarchy Process algorithm for multi criteria path-planning, while Genetic algorithm shows superior performance in the comparison of the two algorithms.




