# reinforcement learning
## Dynamic Estimation of Learning Rates Using a Non-Linear Autoregressive Model
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.09943v2
- **Authors**: ['Ramin Okhrati']
- **Abstrat**: We introduce a new class of adaptive non-linear autoregressive (Nlar) models incorporating the concept of momentum, which dynamically estimate both the learning rates and momentum as the number of iterations increases. In our method, the growth of the gradients is controlled using a scaling (clipping) function, leading to stable convergence. Within this framework, we propose three distinct estimators for learning rates and provide theoretical proof of their convergence. We further demonstrate how these estimators underpin the development of effective Nlar optimizers. The performance of the proposed estimators and optimizers is rigorously evaluated through extensive experiments across several datasets and a reinforcement learning environment. The results highlight two key features of the Nlar optimizers: robust convergence despite variations in underlying parameters, including large initial learning rates, and strong adaptability with rapid convergence during the initial epochs.





## CREW: Facilitating Human-AI Teaming Research
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.00170v2
- **Authors**: ['Lingyu Zhang', 'Zhengran Ji', 'Boyuan Chen']
- **Abstrat**: With the increasing deployment of artificial intelligence (AI) technologies, the potential of humans working with AI agents has been growing at a great speed. Human-AI teaming is an important paradigm for studying various aspects when humans and AI agents work together. The unique aspect of Human-AI teaming research is the need to jointly study humans and AI agents, demanding multidisciplinary research efforts from machine learning to human-computer interaction, robotics, cognitive science, neuroscience, psychology, social science, and complex systems. However, existing platforms for Human-AI teaming research are limited, often supporting oversimplified scenarios and a single task, or specifically focusing on either human-teaming research or multi-agent AI algorithms. We introduce CREW, a platform to facilitate Human-AI teaming research in real-time decision-making scenarios and engage collaborations from multiple scientific disciplines, with a strong emphasis on human involvement. It includes pre-built tasks for cognitive studies and Human-AI teaming with expandable potentials from our modular design. Following conventional cognitive neuroscience research, CREW also supports multimodal human physiological signal recording for behavior analysis. Moreover, CREW benchmarks real-time human-guided reinforcement learning agents using state-of-the-art algorithms and well-tuned baselines. With CREW, we were able to conduct 50 human subject studies within a week to verify the effectiveness of our benchmark.





## Moral Alignment for LLM Agents
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.01639v2
- **Authors**: ['Elizaveta Tennant', 'Stephen Hailes', 'Mirco Musolesi']
- **Abstrat**: Decision-making agents based on pre-trained Large Language Models (LLMs) are increasingly being deployed across various domains of human activity. While their applications are currently rather specialized, several research efforts are under way to develop more generalist agents. As LLM-based systems become more agentic, their influence on human activity will grow and the transparency of this will decrease. Consequently, developing effective methods for aligning them to human values is vital.   The prevailing practice in alignment often relies on human preference data (e.g., in RLHF or DPO), in which values are implicit and are essentially deduced from relative preferences over different model outputs. In this work, instead of relying on human feedback, we introduce the design of reward functions that explicitly encode core human values for Reinforcement Learning-based fine-tuning of foundation agent models. Specifically, we use intrinsic rewards for the moral alignment of LLM agents.   We evaluate our approach using the traditional philosophical frameworks of Deontological Ethics and Utilitarianism, quantifying moral rewards for agents in terms of actions and consequences on the Iterated Prisoner's Dilemma (IPD) environment. We also show how moral fine-tuning can be deployed to enable an agent to unlearn a previously developed selfish strategy. Finally, we find that certain moral strategies learned on the IPD game generalize to several other matrix game environments. In summary, we demonstrate that fine-tuning with intrinsic rewards is a promising general solution for aligning LLM agents to human values, and it might represent a more transparent and cost-effective alternative to currently predominant alignment techniques.





## MASP: Scalable GNN-based Planning for Multi-Agent Navigation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.02522v2
- **Authors**: ['Xinyi Yang', 'Xinting Yang', 'Chao Yu', 'Jiayu Chen', 'Wenbo Ding', 'Huazhong Yang', 'Yu Wang']
- **Abstrat**: We investigate multi-agent navigation tasks, where multiple agents need to reach initially unassigned goals in a limited time. Classical planning-based methods suffer from expensive computation overhead at each step and offer limited expressiveness for complex cooperation strategies. In contrast, reinforcement learning (RL) has recently become a popular approach for addressing this issue. However, RL struggles with low data efficiency and cooperation when directly exploring (nearly) optimal policies in a large exploration space, especially with an increased number of agents(e.g., 10+ agents) or in complex environments (e.g., 3-D simulators). In this paper, we propose the Multi-Agent Scalable Graph-based Planner (MASP), a goal-conditioned hierarchical planner for navigation tasks with a substantial number of agents in the decentralized setting. MASP employs a hierarchical framework to reduce space complexity by decomposing a large exploration space into multiple goal-conditioned subspaces, where a high-level policy assigns agents goals, and a low-level policy navigates agents toward designated goals. For agent cooperation and the adaptation to varying team sizes, we model agents and goals as graphs to better capture their relationship. The high-level policy, the Goal Matcher, leverages a graph-based Self-Encoder and Cross-Encoder to optimize goal assignment by updating the agent and the goal graphs. The low-level policy, the Coordinated Action Executor, introduces the Group Information Fusion to facilitate group division and extract agent relationships across groups, enhancing training efficiency for agent cooperation. The results demonstrate that MASP outperforms RL and planning-based baselines in task efficiency.





## Masked Generative Priors Improve World Models Sequence Modelling Capabilities
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.07836v4
- **Authors**: ['Cristian Meo', 'Mircea Lica', 'Zarif Ikram', 'Akihiro Nakano', 'Vedant Shah', 'Aniket Rajiv Didolkar', 'Dianbo Liu', 'Anirudh Goyal', 'Justin Dauwels']
- **Abstrat**: Deep Reinforcement Learning (RL) has become the leading approach for creating artificial agents in complex environments. Model-based approaches, which are RL methods with world models that predict environment dynamics, are among the most promising directions for improving data efficiency, forming a critical step toward bridging the gap between research and real-world deployment. In particular, world models enhance sample efficiency by learning in imagination, which involves training a generative sequence model of the environment in a self-supervised manner. Recently, Masked Generative Modelling has emerged as a more efficient and superior inductive bias for modelling and generating token sequences. Building on the Efficient Stochastic Transformer-based World Models (STORM) architecture, we replace the traditional MLP prior with a Masked Generative Prior (e.g., MaskGIT Prior) and introduce GIT-STORM. We evaluate our model on two downstream tasks: reinforcement learning and video prediction. GIT-STORM demonstrates substantial performance gains in RL tasks on the Atari 100k benchmark. Moreover, we apply Transformer-based World Models to continuous action environments for the first time, addressing a significant gap in prior research. To achieve this, we employ a state mixer function that integrates latent state representations with actions, enabling our model to handle continuous control tasks. We validate this approach through qualitative and quantitative analyses on the DeepMind Control Suite, showcasing the effectiveness of Transformer-based World Models in this new domain. Our results highlight the versatility and efficacy of the MaskGIT dynamics prior, paving the way for more accurate world models and effective RL policies.





## Multi-turn Reinforcement Learning from Preference Human Feedback
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.14655v2
- **Authors**: ['Lior Shani', 'Aviv Rosenberg', 'Asaf Cassel', 'Oran Lang', 'Daniele Calandriello', 'Avital Zipori', 'Hila Noga', 'Orgad Keller', 'Bilal Piot', 'Idan Szpektor', 'Avinatan Hassidim', 'Yossi Matias', 'Rémi Munos']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) has become the standard approach for aligning Large Language Models (LLMs) with human preferences, allowing LLMs to demonstrate remarkable abilities in various tasks. Existing methods work by emulating the preferences at the single decision (turn) level, limiting their capabilities in settings that require planning or multi-turn interactions to achieve a long-term goal. In this paper, we address this issue by developing novel methods for Reinforcement Learning (RL) from preference feedback between two full multi-turn conversations. In the tabular setting, we present a novel mirror-descent-based policy optimization algorithm for the general multi-turn preference-based RL problem, and prove its convergence to Nash equilibrium. To evaluate performance, we create a new environment, Education Dialogue, where a teacher agent guides a student in learning a random topic, and show that a deep RL variant of our algorithm outperforms RLHF baselines. Finally, we show that in an environment with explicit rewards, our algorithm recovers the same performance as a reward-based RL baseline, despite relying solely on a weaker preference signal.





## Strongly-polynomial time and validation analysis of policy gradient methods
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.19437v3
- **Authors**: ['Caleb Ju', 'Guanghui Lan']
- **Abstrat**: This paper proposes a novel termination criterion, termed the advantage gap function, for finite state and action Markov decision processes (MDP) and reinforcement learning (RL). By incorporating this advantage gap function into the design of step size rules and deriving a new linear rate of convergence that is independent of the stationary state distribution of the optimal policy, we demonstrate that policy gradient methods can solve MDPs in strongly-polynomial time. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that such strong convergence properties have been established for policy gradient methods. Moreover, in the stochastic setting, where only stochastic estimates of policy gradients are available, we show that the advantage gap function provides close approximations of the optimality gap for each individual state and exhibits a sublinear rate of convergence at every state. The advantage gap function can be easily estimated in the stochastic case, and when coupled with easily computable upper bounds on policy values, they provide a convenient way to validate the solutions generated by policy gradient methods. Therefore, our developments offer a principled and computable measure of optimality for RL, whereas current practice tends to rely on algorithm-to-algorithm or baselines comparisons with no certificate of optimality.





## BricksRL: A Platform for Democratizing Robotics and Reinforcement Learning Research and Education with LEGO
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.17490v2
- **Authors**: ['Sebastian Dittert', 'Vincent Moens', 'Gianni De Fabritiis']
- **Abstrat**: We present BricksRL, a platform designed to democratize access to robotics for reinforcement learning research and education. BricksRL facilitates the creation, design, and training of custom LEGO robots in the real world by interfacing them with the TorchRL library for reinforcement learning agents. The integration of TorchRL with the LEGO hubs, via Bluetooth bidirectional communication, enables state-of-the-art reinforcement learning training on GPUs for a wide variety of LEGO builds. This offers a flexible and cost-efficient approach for scaling and also provides a robust infrastructure for robot-environment-algorithm communication. We present various experiments across tasks and robot configurations, providing built plans and training results. Furthermore, we demonstrate that inexpensive LEGO robots can be trained end-to-end in the real world to achieve simple tasks, with training times typically under 120 minutes on a normal laptop. Moreover, we show how users can extend the capabilities, exemplified by the successful integration of non-LEGO sensors. By enhancing accessibility to both robotics and reinforcement learning, BricksRL establishes a strong foundation for democratized robotic learning in research and educational settings.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Multimodal Perception System for Real Open Environment
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.07926v2
- **Authors**: ['Yuyang Sha']
- **Abstrat**: This paper presents a novel multimodal perception system for a real open environment. The proposed system includes an embedded computation platform, cameras, ultrasonic sensors, GPS, and IMU devices. Unlike the traditional frameworks, our system integrates multiple sensors with advanced computer vision algorithms to help users walk outside reliably. The system can efficiently complete various tasks, including navigating to specific locations, passing through obstacle regions, and crossing intersections. Specifically, we also use ultrasonic sensors and depth cameras to enhance obstacle avoidance performance. The path planning module is designed to find the locally optimal route based on various feedback and the user's current state. To evaluate the performance of the proposed system, we design several experiments under different scenarios. The results show that the system can help users walk efficiently and independently in complex situations.





## CoVLA: Comprehensive Vision-Language-Action Dataset for Autonomous Driving
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.10845v2
- **Authors**: ['Hidehisa Arai', 'Keita Miwa', 'Kento Sasaki', 'Yu Yamaguchi', 'Kohei Watanabe', 'Shunsuke Aoki', 'Issei Yamamoto']
- **Abstrat**: Autonomous driving, particularly navigating complex and unanticipated scenarios, demands sophisticated reasoning and planning capabilities. While Multi-modal Large Language Models (MLLMs) offer a promising avenue for this, their use has been largely confined to understanding complex environmental contexts or generating high-level driving commands, with few studies extending their application to end-to-end path planning. A major research bottleneck is the lack of large-scale annotated datasets encompassing vision, language, and action. To address this issue, we propose CoVLA (Comprehensive Vision-Language-Action) Dataset, an extensive dataset comprising real-world driving videos spanning more than 80 hours. This dataset leverages a novel, scalable approach based on automated data processing and a caption generation pipeline to generate accurate driving trajectories paired with detailed natural language descriptions of driving environments and maneuvers. This approach utilizes raw in-vehicle sensor data, allowing it to surpass existing datasets in scale and annotation richness. Using CoVLA, we investigate the driving capabilities of MLLMs that can handle vision, language, and action in a variety of driving scenarios. Our results illustrate the strong proficiency of our model in generating coherent language and action outputs, emphasizing the potential of Vision-Language-Action (VLA) models in the field of autonomous driving. This dataset establishes a framework for robust, interpretable, and data-driven autonomous driving systems by providing a comprehensive platform for training and evaluating VLA models, contributing to safer and more reliable self-driving vehicles. The dataset is released for academic purpose.




