# reinforcement learning
## Dynamics of Supervised and Reinforcement Learning in the Non-Linear Perceptron
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.03749v1
- **Authors**: ['Christian Schmid', 'James M. Murray']
- **Abstrat**: The ability of a brain or a neural network to efficiently learn depends crucially on both the task structure and the learning rule. Previous works have analyzed the dynamical equations describing learning in the relatively simplified context of the perceptron under assumptions of a student-teacher framework or a linearized output. While these assumptions have facilitated theoretical understanding, they have precluded a detailed understanding of the roles of the nonlinearity and input-data distribution in determining the learning dynamics, limiting the applicability of the theories to real biological or artificial neural networks. Here, we use a stochastic-process approach to derive flow equations describing learning, applying this framework to the case of a nonlinear perceptron performing binary classification. We characterize the effects of the learning rule (supervised or reinforcement learning, SL/RL) and input-data distribution on the perceptron's learning curve and the forgetting curve as subsequent tasks are learned. In particular, we find that the input-data noise differently affects the learning speed under SL vs. RL, as well as determines how quickly learning of a task is overwritten by subsequent learning. Additionally, we verify our approach with real data using the MNIST dataset. This approach points a way toward analyzing learning dynamics for more-complex circuit architectures.





## Differentiable Discrete Event Simulation for Queuing Network Control
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.03740v1
- **Authors**: ['Ethan Che', 'Jing Dong', 'Hongseok Namkoong']
- **Abstrat**: Queuing network control is essential for managing congestion in job-processing systems such as service systems, communication networks, and manufacturing processes. Despite growing interest in applying reinforcement learning (RL) techniques, queueing network control poses distinct challenges, including high stochasticity, large state and action spaces, and lack of stability. To tackle these challenges, we propose a scalable framework for policy optimization based on differentiable discrete event simulation. Our main insight is that by implementing a well-designed smoothing technique for discrete event dynamics, we can compute pathwise policy gradients for large-scale queueing networks using auto-differentiation software (e.g., Tensorflow, PyTorch) and GPU parallelization. Through extensive empirical experiments, we observe that our policy gradient estimators are several orders of magnitude more accurate than typical REINFORCE-based estimators. In addition, We propose a new policy architecture, which drastically improves stability while maintaining the flexibility of neural-network policies. In a wide variety of scheduling and admission control tasks, we demonstrate that training control policies with pathwise gradients leads to a 50-1000x improvement in sample efficiency over state-of-the-art RL methods. Unlike prior tailored approaches to queueing, our methods can flexibly handle realistic scenarios, including systems operating in non-stationary environments and those with non-exponential interarrival/service times.





## How to Train your Antivirus: RL-based Hardening through the Problem-Space
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.19027v2
- **Authors**: ['Ilias Tsingenopoulos', 'Jacopo Cortellazzi', 'Branislav Bošanský', 'Simone Aonzo', 'Davy Preuveneers', 'Wouter Joosen', 'Fabio Pierazzi', 'Lorenzo Cavallaro']
- **Abstrat**: ML-based malware detection on dynamic analysis reports is vulnerable to both evasion and spurious correlations. In this work, we investigate a specific ML architecture employed in the pipeline of a widely-known commercial antivirus company, with the goal to harden it against adversarial malware. Adversarial training, the sole defensive technique that can confer empirical robustness, is not applicable out of the box in this domain, for the principal reason that gradient-based perturbations rarely map back to feasible problem-space programs. We introduce a novel Reinforcement Learning approach for constructing adversarial examples, a constituent part of adversarially training a model against evasion. Our approach comes with multiple advantages. It performs modifications that are feasible in the problem-space, and only those; thus it circumvents the inverse mapping problem. It also makes possible to provide theoretical guarantees on the robustness of the model against a particular set of adversarial capabilities. Our empirical exploration validates our theoretical insights, where we can consistently reach 0% Attack Success Rate after a few adversarial retraining iterations.





## A Graph-based Adversarial Imitation Learning Framework for Reliable & Realtime Fleet Scheduling in Urban Air Mobility
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.12113v2
- **Authors**: ['Prithvi Poddar', 'Steve Paul', 'Souma Chowdhury']
- **Abstrat**: The advent of Urban Air Mobility (UAM) presents the scope for a transformative shift in the domain of urban transportation. However, its widespread adoption and economic viability depends in part on the ability to optimally schedule the fleet of aircraft across vertiports in a UAM network, under uncertainties attributed to airspace congestion, changing weather conditions, and varying demands. This paper presents a comprehensive optimization formulation of the fleet scheduling problem, while also identifying the need for alternate solution approaches, since directly solving the resulting integer nonlinear programming problem is computationally prohibitive for daily fleet scheduling. Previous work has shown the effectiveness of using (graph) reinforcement learning (RL) approaches to train real-time executable policy models for fleet scheduling. However, such policies can often be brittle on out-of-distribution scenarios or edge cases. Moreover, training performance also deteriorates as the complexity (e.g., number of constraints) of the problem increases. To address these issues, this paper presents an imitation learning approach where the RL-based policy exploits expert demonstrations yielded by solving the exact optimization using a Genetic Algorithm. The policy model comprises Graph Neural Network (GNN) based encoders that embed the space of vertiports and aircraft, Transformer networks to encode demand, passenger fare, and transport cost profiles, and a Multi-head attention (MHA) based decoder. Expert demonstrations are used through the Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning (GAIL) algorithm. Interfaced with a UAM simulation environment involving 8 vertiports and 40 aircrafts, in terms of the daily profits earned reward, the new imitative approach achieves better mean performance and remarkable improvement in the case of unseen worst-case scenarios, compared to pure RL results.





## On the Limited Generalization Capability of the Implicit Reward Model Induced by Direct Preference Optimization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.03650v1
- **Authors**: ['Yong Lin', 'Skyler Seto', 'Maartje ter Hoeve', 'Katherine Metcalf', 'Barry-John Theobald', 'Xuan Wang', 'Yizhe Zhang', 'Chen Huang', 'Tong Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) is an effective approach for aligning language models to human preferences. Central to RLHF is learning a reward function for scoring human preferences. Two main approaches for learning a reward model are 1) training an EXplicit Reward Model (EXRM) as in RLHF, and 2) using an implicit reward learned from preference data through methods such as Direct Preference Optimization (DPO). Prior work has shown that the implicit reward model of DPO (denoted as DPORM) can approximate an EXRM in the limit. DPORM's effectiveness directly implies the optimality of the learned policy, and also has practical implication for LLM alignment methods including iterative DPO. However, it is unclear how well DPORM empirically matches the performance of EXRM. This work studies the accuracy at distinguishing preferred and rejected answers for both DPORM and EXRM. Our findings indicate that even though DPORM fits the training dataset comparably, it generalizes less effectively than EXRM, especially when the validation datasets contain distribution shifts. Across five out-of-distribution settings, DPORM has a mean drop in accuracy of 3% and a maximum drop of 7%. These findings highlight that DPORM has limited generalization ability and substantiates the integration of an explicit reward model in iterative DPO approaches.





## Hierarchical Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning with Mid-level Input Generation for Autonomous Driving on Urban Environments
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2302.04823v5
- **Authors**: ['Gustavo Claudio Karl Couto', 'Eric Aislan Antonelo']
- **Abstrat**: Deriving robust control policies for realistic urban navigation scenarios is not a trivial task. In an end-to-end approach, these policies must map high-dimensional images from the vehicle's cameras to low-level actions such as steering and throttle. While pure Reinforcement Learning (RL) approaches are based exclusively on engineered rewards, Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning (GAIL) agents learn from expert demonstrations while interacting with the environment, which favors GAIL on tasks for which a reward signal is difficult to derive, such as autonomous driving. However, training deep networks directly from raw images on RL tasks is known to be unstable and troublesome. To deal with that, this work proposes a hierarchical GAIL-based architecture (hGAIL) which decouples representation learning from the driving task to solve the autonomous navigation of a vehicle. The proposed architecture consists of two modules: a GAN (Generative Adversarial Net) which generates an abstract mid-level input representation, which is the Bird's-Eye View (BEV) from the surroundings of the vehicle; and the GAIL which learns to control the vehicle based on the BEV predictions from the GAN as input. hGAIL is able to learn both the policy and the mid-level representation simultaneously as the agent interacts with the environment. Our experiments made in the CARLA simulation environment have shown that GAIL exclusively from cameras (without BEV) fails to even learn the task, while hGAIL, after training exclusively on one city, was able to autonomously navigate successfully in 98% of the intersections of a new city not used in training phase. Videos and code available at: https://sites.google.com/view/hgail





## 1 Modular Parallel Manipulator for Long-Term Soft Robotic Data Collection
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.03614v1
- **Authors**: ['Kiyn Chin', 'Carmel Majidi', 'Abhinav Gupta']
- **Abstrat**: Performing long-term experimentation or large-scale data collection for machine learning in the field of soft robotics is challenging, due to the hardware robustness and experimental flexibility required. In this work, we propose a modular parallel robotic manipulation platform suitable for such large-scale data collection and compatible with various soft-robotic fabrication methods. Considering the computational and theoretical difficulty of replicating the high-fidelity, faster-than-real-time simulations that enable large-scale data collection in rigid robotic systems, a robust soft-robotic hardware platform becomes a high priority development task for the field.   The platform's modules consist of a pair of off-the-shelf electrical motors which actuate a customizable finger consisting of a compliant parallel structure. The parallel mechanism of the finger can be as simple as a single 3D-printed urethane or molded silicone bulk structure, due to the motors being able to fully actuate a passive structure. This design flexibility allows experimentation with soft mechanism varied geometries, bulk properties and surface properties. Additionally, while the parallel mechanism does not require separate electronics or additional parts, these can be included, and it can be constructed using multi-functional soft materials to study compatible soft sensors and actuators in the learning process. In this work, we validate the platform's ability to be used for policy gradient reinforcement learning directly on hardware in a benchmark 2D manipulation task. We additionally demonstrate compatibility with multiple fingers and characterize the design constraints for compatible extensions.





## CHIRPs: Change-Induced Regret Proxy metrics for Lifelong Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.03577v1
- **Authors**: ['John Birkbeck', 'Adam Sobey', 'Federico Cerutti', 'Katherine Heseltine Hurley Flynn', 'Timothy J. Norman']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning agents can achieve superhuman performance in static tasks but are costly to train and fragile to task changes. This limits their deployment in real-world scenarios where training experience is expensive or the context changes through factors like sensor degradation, environmental processes or changing mission priorities. Lifelong reinforcement learning aims to improve sample efficiency and adaptability by studying how agents perform in evolving problems. The difficulty that these changes pose to an agent is rarely measured directly, however. Agent performances can be compared across a change, but this is often prohibitively expensive. We propose Change-Induced Regret Proxy (CHIRP) metrics, a class of metrics for approximating a change's difficulty while avoiding the high costs of using trained agents. A relationship between a CHIRP metric and agent performance is identified in two environments, a simple grid world and MetaWorld's suite of robotic arm tasks. We demonstrate two uses for these metrics: for learning, an agent that clusters MDPs based on a CHIRP metric achieves $17\%$ higher average returns than three existing agents in a sequence of MetaWorld tasks. We also show how a CHIRP can be calibrated to compare the difficulty of changes across distinctly different environments.





## Ontology-driven Reinforcement Learning for Personalized Student Support
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.10332v2
- **Authors**: ['Ryan Hare', 'Ying Tang']
- **Abstrat**: In the search for more effective education, there is a widespread effort to develop better approaches to personalize student education. Unassisted, educators often do not have time or resources to personally support every student in a given classroom. Motivated by this issue, and by recent advancements in artificial intelligence, this paper presents a general-purpose framework for personalized student support, applicable to any virtual educational system such as a serious game or an intelligent tutoring system. To fit any educational situation, we apply ontologies for their semantic organization, combining them with data collection considerations and multi-agent reinforcement learning. The result is a modular system that can be adapted to any virtual educational software to provide useful personalized assistance to students.





## Developing A Multi-Agent and Self-Adaptive Framework with Deep Reinforcement Learning for Dynamic Portfolio Risk Management
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.00515v3
- **Authors**: ['Zhenglong Li', 'Vincent Tam', 'Kwan L. Yeung']
- **Abstrat**: Deep or reinforcement learning (RL) approaches have been adapted as reactive agents to quickly learn and respond with new investment strategies for portfolio management under the highly turbulent financial market environments in recent years. In many cases, due to the very complex correlations among various financial sectors, and the fluctuating trends in different financial markets, a deep or reinforcement learning based agent can be biased in maximising the total returns of the newly formulated investment portfolio while neglecting its potential risks under the turmoil of various market conditions in the global or regional sectors. Accordingly, a multi-agent and self-adaptive framework namely the MASA is proposed in which a sophisticated multi-agent reinforcement learning (RL) approach is adopted through two cooperating and reactive agents to carefully and dynamically balance the trade-off between the overall portfolio returns and their potential risks. Besides, a very flexible and proactive agent as the market observer is integrated into the MASA framework to provide some additional information on the estimated market trends as valuable feedbacks for multi-agent RL approach to quickly adapt to the ever-changing market conditions. The obtained empirical results clearly reveal the potential strengths of our proposed MASA framework based on the multi-agent RL approach against many well-known RL-based approaches on the challenging data sets of the CSI 300, Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&P 500 indexes over the past 10 years. More importantly, our proposed MASA framework shed lights on many possible directions for future investigation.





## Sparsifying Parametric Models with L0 Regularization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.03489v1
- **Authors**: ['Nicolò Botteghi', 'Urban Fasel']
- **Abstrat**: This document contains an educational introduction to the problem of sparsifying parametric models with L0 regularization. We utilize this approach together with dictionary learning to learn sparse polynomial policies for deep reinforcement learning to control parametric partial differential equations. The code and a tutorial are provided here: https://github.com/nicob15/Sparsifying-Parametric-Models-with-L0.





## Finite-Time Error Analysis of Soft Q-Learning: Switching System Approach
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06366v3
- **Authors**: ['Narim Jeong', 'Donghwan Lee']
- **Abstrat**: Soft Q-learning is a variation of Q-learning designed to solve entropy regularized Markov decision problems where an agent aims to maximize the entropy regularized value function. Despite its empirical success, there have been limited theoretical studies of soft Q-learning to date. This paper aims to offer a novel and unified finite-time, control-theoretic analysis of soft Q-learning algorithms. We focus on two types of soft Q-learning algorithms: one utilizing the log-sum-exp operator and the other employing the Boltzmann operator. By using dynamical switching system models, we derive novel finite-time error bounds for both soft Q-learning algorithms. We hope that our analysis will deepen the current understanding of soft Q-learning by establishing connections with switching system models and may even pave the way for new frameworks in the finite-time analysis of other reinforcement learning algorithms.





## Reinforcement Learning Approach to Optimizing Profilometric Sensor Trajectories for Surface Inspection
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.03429v1
- **Authors**: ['Sara Roos-Hoefgeest', 'Mario Roos-Hoefgeest', 'Ignacio Alvarez', 'Rafael C. González']
- **Abstrat**: High-precision surface defect detection in manufacturing is essential for ensuring quality control. Laser triangulation profilometric sensors are key to this process, providing detailed and accurate surface measurements over a line. To achieve a complete and precise surface scan, accurate relative motion between the sensor and the workpiece is required. It is crucial to control the sensor pose to maintain optimal distance and relative orientation to the surface. It is also important to ensure uniform profile distribution throughout the scanning process. This paper presents a novel Reinforcement Learning (RL) based approach to optimize robot inspection trajectories for profilometric sensors. Building upon the Boustrophedon scanning method, our technique dynamically adjusts the sensor position and tilt to maintain optimal orientation and distance from the surface, while also ensuring a consistent profile distance for uniform and high-quality scanning. Utilizing a simulated environment based on the CAD model of the part, we replicate real-world scanning conditions, including sensor noise and surface irregularities. This simulation-based approach enables offline trajectory planning based on CAD models. Key contributions include the modeling of the state space, action space, and reward function, specifically designed for inspection applications using profilometric sensors. We use Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) algorithm to efficiently train the RL agent, demonstrating its capability to optimize inspection trajectories with profilometric sensors. To validate our approach, we conducted several experiments where a model trained on a specific training piece was tested on various parts in simulation. Also, we conducted a real-world experiment by executing the optimized trajectory, generated offline from a CAD model, to inspect a part using a UR3e robotic arm model.





## Game On: Towards Language Models as RL Experimenters
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.03402v1
- **Authors**: ['Jingwei Zhang', 'Thomas Lampe', 'Abbas Abdolmaleki', 'Jost Tobias Springenberg', 'Martin Riedmiller']
- **Abstrat**: We propose an agent architecture that automates parts of the common reinforcement learning experiment workflow, to enable automated mastery of control domains for embodied agents. To do so, it leverages a VLM to perform some of the capabilities normally required of a human experimenter, including the monitoring and analysis of experiment progress, the proposition of new tasks based on past successes and failures of the agent, decomposing tasks into a sequence of subtasks (skills), and retrieval of the skill to execute -enabling our system to build automated curricula for learning. We believe this is one of the first proposals for a system that leverages a VLM throughout the full experiment cycle of reinforcement learning. We provide a first prototype of this system, and examine the feasibility of current models and techniques for the desired level of automation. For this, we use a standard Gemini model, without additional fine-tuning, to provide a curriculum of skills to a language-conditioned Actor-Critic algorithm, in order to steer data collection so as to aid learning new skills. Data collected in this way is shown to be useful for learning and iteratively improving control policies in a robotics domain. Additional examination of the ability of the system to build a growing library of skills, and to judge the progress of the training of those skills, also shows promising results, suggesting that the proposed architecture provides a potential recipe for fully automated mastery of tasks and domains for embodied agents.





## Trustworthy Human-AI Collaboration: Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback and Physics Knowledge for Safe Autonomous Driving
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.00858v2
- **Authors**: ['Zilin Huang', 'Zihao Sheng', 'Sikai Chen']
- **Abstrat**: In the field of autonomous driving, developing safe and trustworthy autonomous driving policies remains a significant challenge. Recently, Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF) has attracted substantial attention due to its potential to enhance training safety and sampling efficiency. Nevertheless, existing RLHF-enabled methods often falter when faced with imperfect human demonstrations, potentially leading to training oscillations or even worse performance than rule-based approaches. Inspired by the human learning process, we propose Physics-enhanced Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (PE-RLHF). This novel framework synergistically integrates human feedback (e.g., human intervention and demonstration) and physics knowledge (e.g., traffic flow model) into the training loop of reinforcement learning. The key advantage of PE-RLHF is its guarantee that the learned policy will perform at least as well as the given physics-based policy, even when human feedback quality deteriorates, thus ensuring trustworthy safety improvements. PE-RLHF introduces a Physics-enhanced Human-AI (PE-HAI) collaborative paradigm for dynamic action selection between human and physics-based actions, employs a reward-free approach with a proxy value function to capture human preferences, and incorporates a minimal intervention mechanism to reduce the cognitive load on human mentors. Extensive experiments across diverse driving scenarios demonstrate that PE-RLHF significantly outperforms traditional methods, achieving state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance in safety, efficiency, and generalizability, even with varying quality of human feedback. The philosophy behind PE-RLHF not only advances autonomous driving technology but can also offer valuable insights for other safety-critical domains. Demo video and code are available at: \https://zilin-huang.github.io/PE-RLHF-website/





## FRAC-Q-Learning: A Reinforcement Learning with Boredom Avoidance Processes for Social Robots
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2311.15327v4
- **Authors**: ['Akinari Onishi']
- **Abstrat**: The reinforcement learning algorithms have often been applied to social robots. However, most reinforcement learning algorithms were not optimized for the use of social robots, and consequently they may bore users. We proposed a new reinforcement learning method specialized for the social robot, the FRAC-Q-learning, that can avoid user boredom. The proposed algorithm consists of a forgetting process in addition to randomizing and categorizing processes. This study evaluated interest and boredom hardness scores of the FRAC-Q-learning by a comparison with the traditional Q-learning. The FRAC-Q-learning showed significantly higher trend of interest score, and indicated significantly harder to bore users compared to the traditional Q-learning. Therefore, the FRAC-Q-learning can contribute to develop a social robot that will not bore users. The proposed algorithm has a potential to apply for Web-based communication and educational systems. This paper presents the entire process, detailed implementation and a detailed evaluation method of the of the FRAC-Q-learning for the first time.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## FLAF: Focal Line and Feature-constrained Active View Planning for Visual Teach and Repeat
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.03457v1
- **Authors**: ['Changfei Fu', 'Weinan Chen', 'Wenjun Xu', 'Hong Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: This paper presents FLAF, a focal line and feature-constrained active view planning method for tracking failure avoidance in feature-based visual navigation of mobile robots. Our FLAF-based visual navigation is built upon a feature-based visual teach and repeat (VT\&R) framework, which supports many robotic applications by teaching a robot to navigate on various paths that cover a significant portion of daily autonomous navigation requirements. However, tracking failure in feature-based visual simultaneous localization and mapping (VSLAM) caused by textureless regions in human-made environments is still limiting VT\&R to be adopted in the real world. To address this problem, the proposed view planner is integrated into a feature-based visual SLAM system to build up an active VT\&R system that avoids tracking failure. In our system, a pan-tilt unit (PTU)-based active camera is mounted on the mobile robot. Using FLAF, the active camera-based VSLAM operates during the teaching phase to construct a complete path map and in the repeat phase to maintain stable localization. FLAF orients the robot toward more map points to avoid mapping failures during path learning and toward more feature-identifiable map points beneficial for localization while following the learned trajectory. Experiments in real scenarios demonstrate that FLAF outperforms the methods that do not consider feature-identifiability, and our active VT\&R system performs well in complex environments by effectively dealing with low-texture regions.





## MARPF: Multi-Agent and Multi-Rack Path Finding
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.12376v3
- **Authors**: ['Hiroya Makino', 'Yoshihiro Ohama', 'Seigo Ito']
- **Abstrat**: In environments where many automated guided vehicles (AGVs) operate, planning efficient, collision-free paths is essential. Related research has mainly focused on environments with pre-defined passages, resulting in space inefficiency. We attempt to relax this assumption. In this study, we define multi-agent and multi-rack path finding (MARPF) as the problem of planning paths for AGVs to convey target racks to their designated locations in environments without passages. In such environments, an AGV without a rack can pass under racks, whereas one with a rack cannot pass under racks to avoid collisions. MARPF entails conveying the target racks without collisions, while the obstacle racks are relocated to prevent any interference with the target racks. We formulated MARPF as an integer linear programming problem in a network flow. To distinguish situations in which an AGV is or is not loading a rack, the proposed method introduces two virtual layers into the network. We optimized the AGVs' movements to move obstacle racks and convey the target racks. The formulation and applicability of the algorithm were validated through numerical experiments. The results indicated that the proposed algorithm addressed issues in environments with dense racks.




