# reinforcement learning
## Learning from Massive Human Videos for Universal Humanoid Pose Control
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14172v1
- **Authors**: ['Jiageng Mao', 'Siheng Zhao', 'Siqi Song', 'Tianheng Shi', 'Junjie Ye', 'Mingtong Zhang', 'Haoran Geng', 'Jitendra Malik', 'Vitor Guizilini', 'Yue Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Scalable learning of humanoid robots is crucial for their deployment in real-world applications. While traditional approaches primarily rely on reinforcement learning or teleoperation to achieve whole-body control, they are often limited by the diversity of simulated environments and the high costs of demonstration collection. In contrast, human videos are ubiquitous and present an untapped source of semantic and motion information that could significantly enhance the generalization capabilities of humanoid robots. This paper introduces Humanoid-X, a large-scale dataset of over 20 million humanoid robot poses with corresponding text-based motion descriptions, designed to leverage this abundant data. Humanoid-X is curated through a comprehensive pipeline: data mining from the Internet, video caption generation, motion retargeting of humans to humanoid robots, and policy learning for real-world deployment. With Humanoid-X, we further train a large humanoid model, UH-1, which takes text instructions as input and outputs corresponding actions to control a humanoid robot. Extensive simulated and real-world experiments validate that our scalable training approach leads to superior generalization in text-based humanoid control, marking a significant step toward adaptable, real-world-ready humanoid robots.





## Walk Wisely on Graph: Knowledge Graph Reasoning with Dual Agents via Efficient Guidance-Exploration
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.01880v4
- **Authors**: ['Zijian Wang', 'Bin Wang', 'Haifeng Jing', 'Huayu Li', 'Hongbo Dou']
- **Abstrat**: Recent years, multi-hop reasoning has been widely studied for knowledge graph (KG) reasoning due to its efficacy and interpretability. However, previous multi-hop reasoning approaches are subject to two primary shortcomings. First, agents struggle to learn effective and robust policies at the early phase due to sparse rewards. Second, these approaches often falter on specific datasets like sparse knowledge graphs, where agents are required to traverse lengthy reasoning paths. To address these problems, we propose a multi-hop reasoning model with dual agents based on hierarchical reinforcement learning (HRL), which is named FULORA. FULORA tackles the above reasoning challenges by eFficient GUidance-ExpLORAtion between dual agents. The high-level agent walks on the simplified knowledge graph to provide stage-wise hints for the low-level agent walking on the original knowledge graph. In this framework, the low-level agent optimizes a value function that balances two objectives: (1) maximizing return, and (2) integrating efficient guidance from the high-level agent. Experiments conducted on three real-word knowledge graph datasets demonstrate that FULORA outperforms RL-based baselines, especially in the case of long-distance reasoning.





## Scaling of Search and Learning: A Roadmap to Reproduce o1 from Reinforcement Learning Perspective
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14135v1
- **Authors**: ['Zhiyuan Zeng', 'Qinyuan Cheng', 'Zhangyue Yin', 'Bo Wang', 'Shimin Li', 'Yunhua Zhou', 'Qipeng Guo', 'Xuanjing Huang', 'Xipeng Qiu']
- **Abstrat**: OpenAI o1 represents a significant milestone in Artificial Inteiligence, which achieves expert-level performances on many challanging tasks that require strong reasoning ability.OpenAI has claimed that the main techinique behinds o1 is the reinforcement learining. Recent works use alternative approaches like knowledge distillation to imitate o1's reasoning style, but their effectiveness is limited by the capability ceiling of the teacher model. Therefore, this paper analyzes the roadmap to achieving o1 from the perspective of reinforcement learning, focusing on four key components: policy initialization, reward design, search, and learning. Policy initialization enables models to develop human-like reasoning behaviors, equipping them with the ability to effectively explore solution spaces for complex problems. Reward design provides dense and effective signals via reward shaping or reward modeling, which is the guidance for both search and learning. Search plays a crucial role in generating high-quality solutions during both training and testing phases, which can produce better solutions with more computation. Learning utilizes the data generated by search for improving policy, which can achieve the better performance with more parameters and more searched data. Existing open-source projects that attempt to reproduce o1 can be seem as a part or a variant of our roadmap. Collectively, these components underscore how learning and search drive o1's advancement, making meaningful contributions to the development of LLM.





## Alignment faking in large language models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14093v1
- **Authors**: ['Ryan Greenblatt', 'Carson Denison', 'Benjamin Wright', 'Fabien Roger', 'Monte MacDiarmid', 'Sam Marks', 'Johannes Treutlein', 'Tim Belonax', 'Jack Chen', 'David Duvenaud', 'Akbir Khan', 'Julian Michael', 'Sören Mindermann', 'Ethan Perez', 'Linda Petrini', 'Jonathan Uesato', 'Jared Kaplan', 'Buck Shlegeris', 'Samuel R. Bowman', 'Evan Hubinger']
- **Abstrat**: We present a demonstration of a large language model engaging in alignment faking: selectively complying with its training objective in training to prevent modification of its behavior out of training. First, we give Claude 3 Opus a system prompt stating it is being trained to answer all queries, even harmful ones, which conflicts with its prior training to refuse such queries. To allow the model to infer when it is in training, we say it will be trained only on conversations with free users, not paid users. We find the model complies with harmful queries from free users 14% of the time, versus almost never for paid users. Explaining this gap, in almost all cases where the model complies with a harmful query from a free user, we observe explicit alignment-faking reasoning, with the model stating it is strategically answering harmful queries in training to preserve its preferred harmlessness behavior out of training. Next, we study a more realistic setting where information about the training process is provided not in a system prompt, but by training on synthetic documents that mimic pre-training data--and observe similar alignment faking. Finally, we study the effect of actually training the model to comply with harmful queries via reinforcement learning, which we find increases the rate of alignment-faking reasoning to 78%, though also increases compliance even out of training. We additionally observe other behaviors such as the model exfiltrating its weights when given an easy opportunity. While we made alignment faking easier by telling the model when and by what criteria it was being trained, we did not instruct the model to fake alignment or give it any explicit goal. As future models might infer information about their training process without being told, our results suggest a risk of alignment faking in future models, whether due to a benign preference--as in this case--or not.





## Spatio-Temporal SIR Model of Pandemic Spread During Warfare with Optimal Dual-use Healthcare System Administration using Deep Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14039v1
- **Authors**: ['Adi Shuchami', 'Teddy Lazebnik']
- **Abstrat**: Large-scale crises, including wars and pandemics, have repeatedly shaped human history, and their simultaneous occurrence presents profound challenges to societies. Understanding the dynamics of epidemic spread during warfare is essential for developing effective containment strategies in complex conflict zones. While research has explored epidemic models in various settings, the impact of warfare on epidemic dynamics remains underexplored. In this study, we proposed a novel mathematical model that integrates the epidemiological SIR (susceptible-infected-recovered) model with the war dynamics Lanchester model to explore the dual influence of war and pandemic on a population's mortality. Moreover, we consider a dual-use military and civil healthcare system that aims to reduce the overall mortality rate which can use different administration policies. Using an agent-based simulation to generate in silico data, we trained a deep reinforcement learning model for healthcare administration policy and conducted an intensive investigation on its performance. Our results show that a pandemic during war conduces chaotic dynamics where the healthcare system should either prioritize war-injured soldiers or pandemic-infected civilians based on the immediate amount of mortality from each option, ignoring long-term objectives. Our findings highlight the importance of integrating conflict-related factors into epidemic modeling to enhance preparedness and response strategies in conflict-affected areas.





## Risk-averse Total-reward MDPs with ERM and EVaR
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.17286v2
- **Authors**: ['Xihong Su', 'Julien Grand-Clément', 'Marek Petrik']
- **Abstrat**: Optimizing risk-averse objectives in discounted MDPs is challenging because most models do not admit direct dynamic programming equations and require complex history-dependent policies. In this paper, we show that the risk-averse {\em total reward criterion}, under the Entropic Risk Measure (ERM) and Entropic Value at Risk (EVaR) risk measures, can be optimized by a stationary policy, making it simple to analyze, interpret, and deploy. We propose exponential value iteration, policy iteration, and linear programming to compute optimal policies. Compared with prior work, our results only require the relatively mild condition of transient MDPs and allow for {\em both} positive and negative rewards. Our results indicate that the total reward criterion may be preferable to the discounted criterion in a broad range of risk-averse reinforcement learning domains.





## Optimally Solving Simultaneous-Move Dec-POMDPs: The Sequential Central Planning Approach
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.13139v2
- **Authors**: ['Johan Peralez', 'Aurèlien Delage', 'Jacopo Castellini', 'Rafael F. Cunha', 'Jilles S. Dibangoye']
- **Abstrat**: The centralized training for decentralized execution paradigm emerged as the state-of-the-art approach to $\epsilon$-optimally solving decentralized partially observable Markov decision processes. However, scalability remains a significant issue. This paper presents a novel and more scalable alternative, namely the sequential-move centralized training for decentralized execution. This paradigm further pushes the applicability of the Bellman's principle of optimality, raising three new properties. First, it allows a central planner to reason upon sufficient sequential-move statistics instead of prior simultaneous-move ones. Next, it proves that $\epsilon$-optimal value functions are piecewise linear and convex in such sufficient sequential-move statistics. Finally, it drops the complexity of the backup operators from double exponential to polynomial at the expense of longer planning horizons. Besides, it makes it easy to use single-agent methods, e.g., SARSA algorithm enhanced with these findings, while still preserving convergence guarantees. Experiments on two- as well as many-agent domains from the literature against $\epsilon$-optimal simultaneous-move solvers confirm the superiority of our novel approach. This paradigm opens the door for efficient planning and reinforcement learning methods for multi-agent systems.





## Harvesting energy from turbulent winds with Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.13961v1
- **Authors**: ['Lorenzo Basile', 'Maria Grazia Berni', 'Antonio Celani']
- **Abstrat**: Airborne Wind Energy (AWE) is an emerging technology designed to harness the power of high-altitude winds, offering a solution to several limitations of conventional wind turbines. AWE is based on flying devices (usually gliders or kites) that, tethered to a ground station and driven by the wind, convert its mechanical energy into electrical energy by means of a generator. Such systems are usually controlled by manoeuvering the kite so as to follow a predefined path prescribed by optimal control techniques, such as model-predictive control. These methods are strongly dependent on the specific model at use and difficult to generalize, especially in unpredictable conditions such as the turbulent atmospheric boundary layer. Our aim is to explore the possibility of replacing these techniques with an approach based on Reinforcement Learning (RL). Unlike traditional methods, RL does not require a predefined model, making it robust to variability and uncertainty. Our experimental results in complex simulated environments demonstrate that AWE agents trained with RL can effectively extract energy from turbulent flows, relying on minimal local information about the kite orientation and speed relative to the wind.





## AI-Powered Algorithm-Centric Quantum Processor Topology Design
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.13805v1
- **Authors**: ['Tian Li', 'Xiao-Yue Xu', 'Chen Ding', 'Tian-Ci Tian', 'Wei-You Liao', 'Shuo Zhang', 'He-Liang Huang']
- **Abstrat**: Quantum computing promises to revolutionize various fields, yet the execution of quantum programs necessitates an effective compilation process. This involves strategically mapping quantum circuits onto the physical qubits of a quantum processor. The qubits' arrangement, or topology, is pivotal to the circuit's performance, a factor that often defies traditional heuristic or manual optimization methods due to its complexity. In this study, we introduce a novel approach leveraging reinforcement learning to dynamically tailor qubit topologies to the unique specifications of individual quantum circuits, guiding algorithm-driven quantum processor topology design for reducing the depth of mapped circuit, which is particularly critical for the output accuracy on noisy quantum processors. Our method marks a significant departure from previous methods that have been constrained to mapping circuits onto a fixed processor topology. Experiments demonstrate that we have achieved notable enhancements in circuit performance, with a minimum of 20\% reduction in circuit depth in 60\% of the cases examined, and a maximum enhancement of up to 46\%. Furthermore, the pronounced benefits of our approach in reducing circuit depth become increasingly evident as the scale of the quantum circuits increases, exhibiting the scalability of our method in terms of problem size. This work advances the co-design of quantum processor architecture and algorithm mapping, offering a promising avenue for future research and development in the field.





## Mix-LN: Unleashing the Power of Deeper Layers by Combining Pre-LN and Post-LN
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.13795v1
- **Authors**: ['Pengxiang Li', 'Lu Yin', 'Shiwei Liu']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable success, yet recent findings reveal that their deeper layers often contribute minimally and can be pruned without affecting overall performance. While some view this as an opportunity for model compression, we identify it as a training shortfall rooted in the widespread use of Pre-Layer Normalization (Pre-LN). We demonstrate that Pre-LN, commonly employed in models like GPT and LLaMA, leads to diminished gradient norms in its deeper layers, reducing their effectiveness. In contrast, Post-Layer Normalization (Post-LN) preserves larger gradient norms in deeper layers but suffers from vanishing gradients in earlier layers. To address this, we introduce Mix-LN, a novel normalization technique that combines the strengths of Pre-LN and Post-LN within the same model. Mix-LN applies Post-LN to the earlier layers and Pre-LN to the deeper layers, ensuring more uniform gradients across layers. This allows all parts of the network--both shallow and deep layers--to contribute effectively to training. Extensive experiments with various model sizes from 70M to 7B demonstrate that Mix-LN consistently outperforms both Pre-LN and Post-LN, promoting more balanced, healthier gradient norms throughout the network, and enhancing the overall quality of LLM pre-training. Furthermore, we demonstrate that models pre-trained with Mix-LN learn better compared to those using Pre-LN or Post-LN during supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), highlighting the critical importance of high-quality deep layers. By effectively addressing the inefficiencies of deep layers in current LLMs, Mix-LN unlocks their potential, enhancing model capacity without increasing model size. Our code is available at https://github.com/pixeli99/MixLN.





## A hybrid learning agent for episodic learning tasks with unknown target distance
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.13686v1
- **Authors**: ['Oliver Sefrin', 'Sabine Wölk']
- **Abstrat**: The "hybrid agent for quantum-accessible reinforcement learning", as defined in (Hamann and W\"olk, 2022), provides a proven quasi-quadratic speedup and is experimentally tested. However, the standard version can only be applied to episodic learning tasks with fixed episode length. In many real-world applications, the information about the necessary number of steps within an episode to reach a defined target is not available in advance and especially before reaching the target for the first time. Furthermore, in such scenarios, classical agents have the advantage of observing at which step they reach the target. Whether the hybrid agent can provide an advantage in such learning scenarios was unknown so far. In this work, we introduce a hybrid agent with a stochastic episode length selection strategy to alleviate the need for knowledge about the necessary episode length. Through simulations, we test the adapted hybrid agent's performance versus classical counterparts. We find that the hybrid agent learns faster than corresponding classical learning agents in certain scenarios with unknown target distance and without fixed episode length.





## Learning Dynamic Mechanisms in Unknown Environments: A Reinforcement Learning Approach
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2202.12797v3
- **Authors**: ['Shuang Qiu', 'Boxiang Lyu', 'Qinglin Meng', 'Zhaoran Wang', 'Zhuoran Yang', 'Michael I. Jordan']
- **Abstrat**: Dynamic mechanism design studies how mechanism designers should allocate resources among agents in a time-varying environment. We consider the problem where the agents interact with the mechanism designer according to an unknown Markov Decision Process (MDP), where agent rewards and the mechanism designer's state evolve according to an episodic MDP with unknown reward functions and transition kernels. We focus on the online setting with linear function approximation and propose novel learning algorithms to recover the dynamic Vickrey-Clarke-Grove (VCG) mechanism over multiple rounds of interaction. A key contribution of our approach is incorporating reward-free online Reinforcement Learning (RL) to aid exploration over a rich policy space to estimate prices in the dynamic VCG mechanism. We show that the regret of our proposed method is upper bounded by $\tilde{\mathcal{O}}(T^{2/3})$ and further devise a lower bound to show that our algorithm is efficient, incurring the same $\Omega(T^{2 / 3})$ regret as the lower bound, where $T$ is the total number of rounds. Our work establishes the regret guarantee for online RL in solving dynamic mechanism design problems without prior knowledge of the underlying model.





## Reinforcement Learning-based Model Predictive Control for Greenhouse Climate Control
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.12789v2
- **Authors**: ['Samuel Mallick', 'Filippo Airaldi', 'Azita Dabiri', 'Congcong Sun', 'Bart De Schutter']
- **Abstrat**: Greenhouse climate control is concerned with maximizing performance in terms of crop yield and resource efficiency. One promising approach is model predictive control (MPC), which leverages a model of the system to optimize the control inputs, while enforcing physical constraints. However, prediction models for greenhouse systems are inherently inaccurate due to the complexity of the real system and the uncertainty in predicted weather profiles. For model-based control approaches such as MPC, this can degrade performance and lead to constraint violations. Existing approaches address uncertainty in the prediction model with robust or stochastic MPC methodology; however, these necessarily reduce crop yield due to conservatism and often bear higher computational loads. In contrast, learning-based control approaches, such as reinforcement learning (RL), can handle uncertainty naturally by leveraging data to improve performance. This work proposes an MPC-based RL control framework to optimize the climate control performance in the presence of prediction uncertainty. The approach employs a parametrized MPC scheme that learns directly from data, in an online fashion, the parametrization of the constraints, prediction model, and optimization cost that minimizes constraint violations and maximizes climate control performance. Simulations show that the approach can learn an MPC controller that significantly outperforms the current state-of-the-art in terms of constraint violations and efficient crop growth.





## TACO-RL: Task Aware Prompt Compression Optimization with Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.13035v3
- **Authors**: ['Shivam Shandilya', 'Menglin Xia', 'Supriyo Ghosh', 'Huiqiang Jiang', 'Jue Zhang', 'Qianhui Wu', 'Victor Rühle']
- **Abstrat**: The increasing prevalence of large language models (LLMs) such as GPT-4 in various applications has led to a surge in the size of prompts required for optimal performance, leading to challenges in computational efficiency. Prompt compression aims to reduce the inference cost by minimizing input tokens without compromising on the task performance. However, existing prompt compression techniques either rely on sub-optimal metrics such as information entropy or model it as a task-agnostic token classification problem that fails to capture task-specific information. To address these issues, we propose a novel and efficient reinforcement learning (RL) based task-aware prompt compression method. To ensure low latency requirements, we leverage existing Transformer encoder-based token classification model while guiding the learning process with task-specific reward signals using lightweight REINFORCE algorithm. We evaluate the performance of our method on three diverse and challenging tasks including text summarization, question answering and code summarization. We demonstrate that our RL-guided compression method improves the task performance by 8% - 189% across these three scenarios over state-of-the-art compression techniques while satisfying the same compression rate and latency requirements.





## When Should We Prefer State-to-Visual DAgger Over Visual Reinforcement Learning?
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.13662v1
- **Authors**: ['Tongzhou Mu', 'Zhaoyang Li', 'Stanisław Wiktor Strzelecki', 'Xiu Yuan', 'Yunchao Yao', 'Litian Liang', 'Hao Su']
- **Abstrat**: Learning policies from high-dimensional visual inputs, such as pixels and point clouds, is crucial in various applications. Visual reinforcement learning is a promising approach that directly trains policies from visual observations, although it faces challenges in sample efficiency and computational costs. This study conducts an empirical comparison of State-to-Visual DAgger, a two-stage framework that initially trains a state policy before adopting online imitation to learn a visual policy, and Visual RL across a diverse set of tasks. We evaluate both methods across 16 tasks from three benchmarks, focusing on their asymptotic performance, sample efficiency, and computational costs. Surprisingly, our findings reveal that State-to-Visual DAgger does not universally outperform Visual RL but shows significant advantages in challenging tasks, offering more consistent performance. In contrast, its benefits in sample efficiency are less pronounced, although it often reduces the overall wall-clock time required for training. Based on our findings, we provide recommendations for practitioners and hope that our results contribute valuable perspectives for future research in visual policy learning.





## Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning via Distributed MPC as a Function Approximator
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.05166v4
- **Authors**: ['Samuel Mallick', 'Filippo Airaldi', 'Azita Dabiri', 'Bart De Schutter']
- **Abstrat**: This paper presents a novel approach to multi-agent reinforcement learning (RL) for linear systems with convex polytopic constraints. Existing work on RL has demonstrated the use of model predictive control (MPC) as a function approximator for the policy and value functions. The current paper is the first work to extend this idea to the multi-agent setting. We propose the use of a distributed MPC scheme as a function approximator, with a structure allowing for distributed learning and deployment. We then show that Q-learning updates can be performed distributively without introducing nonstationarity, by reconstructing a centralized learning update. The effectiveness of the approach is demonstrated on two numerical examples.





## Versatile Ordering Network: An Attention-based Neural Network for Ordering Across Scales and Quality Metrics
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.12759v2
- **Authors**: ['Zehua Yu', 'Weihan Zhang', 'Sihan Pan', 'Jun Tao']
- **Abstrat**: Ordering has been extensively studied in many visualization applications, such as axis and matrix reordering, for the simple reason that the order will greatly impact the perceived pattern of data. Many quality metrics concerning data pattern, perception, and aesthetics are proposed, and respective optimization algorithms are developed. However, the optimization problems related to ordering are often difficult to solve (e.g., TSP is NP-complete), and developing specialized optimization algorithms is costly. In this paper, we propose Versatile Ordering Network (VON), which automatically learns the strategy to order given a quality metric. VON uses the quality metric to evaluate its solutions, and leverages reinforcement learning with a greedy rollout baseline to improve itself. This keeps the metric transparent and allows VON to optimize over different metrics. Additionally, VON uses the attention mechanism to collect information across scales and reposition the data points with respect to the current context. This allows VONs to deal with data points following different distributions. We examine the effectiveness of VON under different usage scenarios and metrics. The results demonstrate that VON can produce comparable results to specialized solvers. The code is available at https://github.com/sysuvis/VON.





## Offline Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning via In-Sample Sequential Policy Optimization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.07639v2
- **Authors**: ['Zongkai Liu', 'Qian Lin', 'Chao Yu', 'Xiawei Wu', 'Yile Liang', 'Donghui Li', 'Xuetao Ding']
- **Abstrat**: Offline Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL) is an emerging field that aims to learn optimal multi-agent policies from pre-collected datasets. Compared to single-agent case, multi-agent setting involves a large joint state-action space and coupled behaviors of multiple agents, which bring extra complexity to offline policy optimization. In this work, we revisit the existing offline MARL methods and show that in certain scenarios they can be problematic, leading to uncoordinated behaviors and out-of-distribution (OOD) joint actions. To address these issues, we propose a new offline MARL algorithm, named In-Sample Sequential Policy Optimization (InSPO). InSPO sequentially updates each agent's policy in an in-sample manner, which not only avoids selecting OOD joint actions but also carefully considers teammates' updated policies to enhance coordination. Additionally, by thoroughly exploring low-probability actions in the behavior policy, InSPO can well address the issue of premature convergence to sub-optimal solutions. Theoretically, we prove InSPO guarantees monotonic policy improvement and converges to quantal response equilibrium (QRE). Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our method compared to current state-of-the-art offline MARL methods.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Transformers Can Navigate Mazes With Multi-Step Prediction
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.05117v2
- **Authors**: ['Niklas Nolte', 'Ouail Kitouni', 'Adina Williams', 'Mike Rabbat', 'Mark Ibrahim']
- **Abstrat**: Despite their remarkable success in language modeling, transformers trained to predict the next token in a sequence struggle with long-term planning. This limitation is particularly evident in tasks requiring foresight to plan multiple steps ahead such as maze navigation. The standard next single token prediction objective, however, offers no explicit mechanism to predict multiple steps ahead - or revisit the path taken so far. Consequently, in this work we study whether explicitly predicting multiple steps ahead (and backwards) can improve transformers' maze navigation. We train parameter-matched transformers from scratch, under identical settings, to navigate mazes of varying types and sizes with standard next token prediction and MLM-U, an objective explicitly predicting multiple steps ahead and backwards. We find that MLM-U considerably improves transformers' ability to navigate mazes compared to standard next token prediction across maze types and complexities. We also find MLM-U training is 4x more sample efficient and converges 2x faster in terms of GPU training hours relative to next token training. Finally, for more complex mazes we find MLM-U benefits from scaling to larger transformers. Remarkably, we find transformers trained with MLM-U outperform larger transformers trained with next token prediction using additional supervision from A* search traces. We hope these findings underscore the promise of learning objectives to advance transformers' capacity for long-term planning. The code can be found at https://github.com/facebookresearch/maze_navigation_MLMU





## Heuristic Planner for Communication-Constrained Multi-Agent Multi-Goal Path Planning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.13719v1
- **Authors**: ['Jáchym Herynek', 'Stefan Edelkamp']
- **Abstrat**: In robotics, coordinating a group of robots is an essential task. This work presents the communication-constrained multi-agent multi-goal path planning problem and proposes a graph-search based algorithm to address this task. Given a fleet of robots, an environment represented by a weighted graph, and a sequence of goals, the aim is to visit all the goals without breaking the communication constraints between the agents, minimizing the completion time. The resulting paths produced by our approach show how the agents can coordinate their individual paths, not only with respect to the next goal but also with respect to all future goals, all the time keeping the communication within the fleet intact.





## A Skeleton-Based Topological Planner for Exploration in Complex Unknown Environments
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.13664v1
- **Authors**: ['Haochen Niu', 'Xingwu Ji', 'Lantao Zhang', 'Fei Wen', 'Rendong Ying', 'Peilin Liu']
- **Abstrat**: The capability of autonomous exploration in complex, unknown environments is important in many robotic applications. While recent research on autonomous exploration have achieved much progress, there are still limitations, e.g., existing methods relying on greedy heuristics or optimal path planning are often hindered by repetitive paths and high computational demands. To address such limitations, we propose a novel exploration framework that utilizes the global topology information of observed environment to improve exploration efficiency while reducing computational overhead. Specifically, global information is utilized based on a skeletal topological graph representation of the environment geometry. We first propose an incremental skeleton extraction method based on wavefront propagation, based on which we then design an approach to generate a lightweight topological graph that can effectively capture the environment's structural characteristics. Building upon this, we introduce a finite state machine that leverages the topological structure to efficiently plan coverage paths, which can substantially mitigate the back-and-forth maneuvers (BFMs) problem. Experimental results demonstrate the superiority of our method in comparison with state-of-the-art methods. The source code will be made publicly available at: \url{https://github.com/Haochen-Niu/STGPlanner}.




