# reinforcement learning
## Partially Observable Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning with Information Sharing
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2308.08705v3
- **Authors**: ['Xiangyu Liu', 'Kaiqing Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: We study provable multi-agent reinforcement learning (RL) in the general framework of partially observable stochastic games (POSGs). To circumvent the known hardness results and the use of computationally intractable oracles, we advocate leveraging the potential \emph{information-sharing} among agents, a common practice in empirical multi-agent RL, and a standard model for multi-agent control systems with communications. We first establish several computational complexity results to justify the necessity of information-sharing, as well as the observability assumption that has enabled quasi-efficient single-agent RL with partial observations, for efficiently solving POSGs. {Inspired by the inefficiency of planning in the ground-truth model,} we then propose to further \emph{approximate} the shared common information to construct an {approximate model} of the POSG, in which planning an approximate \emph{equilibrium} (in terms of solving the original POSG) can be quasi-efficient, i.e., of quasi-polynomial-time, under the aforementioned assumptions. Furthermore, we develop a partially observable multi-agent RL algorithm that is \emph{both} statistically and computationally quasi-efficient. {Finally, beyond equilibrium learning, we extend our algorithmic framework to finding the \emph{team-optimal solution} in cooperative POSGs, i.e., decentralized partially observable Markov decision processes, a much more challenging goal. We establish concrete computational and sample complexities under several common structural assumptions of the model.} We hope our study could open up the possibilities of leveraging and even designing different \emph{information structures}, a well-studied notion in control theory, for developing both sample- and computation-efficient partially observable multi-agent RL.





## Knowledge Transfer for Collaborative Misbehavior Detection in Untrusted Vehicular Environments
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02844v1
- **Authors**: ['Roshan Sedar', 'Charalampos Kalalas', 'Paolo Dini', 'Francisco Vazquez-Gallego', 'Jesus Alonso-Zarate', 'Luis Alonso']
- **Abstrat**: Vehicular mobility underscores the need for collaborative misbehavior detection at the vehicular edge. However, locally trained misbehavior detection models are susceptible to adversarial attacks that aim to deliberately influence learning outcomes. In this paper, we introduce a deep reinforcement learning-based approach that employs transfer learning for collaborative misbehavior detection among roadside units (RSUs). In the presence of label-flipping and policy induction attacks, we perform selective knowledge transfer from trustworthy source RSUs to foster relevant expertise in misbehavior detection and avoid negative knowledge sharing from adversary-influenced RSUs. The performance of our proposed scheme is demonstrated with evaluations over a diverse set of misbehavior detection scenarios using an open-source dataset. Experimental results show that our approach significantly reduces the training time at the target RSU and achieves superior detection performance compared to the baseline scheme with tabula rasa learning. Enhanced robustness and generalizability can also be attained, by effectively detecting previously unseen and partially observable misbehavior attacks.





## Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback: Data Coverage and Algorithmic Techniques
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.00717v2
- **Authors**: ['Natalia Zhang', 'Xinqi Wang', 'Qiwen Cui', 'Runlong Zhou', 'Sham M. Kakade', 'Simon S. Du']
- **Abstrat**: We initiate the study of Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (MARLHF), exploring both theoretical foundations and empirical validations. We define the task as identifying Nash equilibrium from a preference-only offline dataset in general-sum games, a problem marked by the challenge of sparse feedback signals. Our theory establishes the upper complexity bounds for Nash Equilibrium in effective MARLHF, demonstrating that single-policy coverage is inadequate and highlighting the importance of unilateral dataset coverage. These theoretical insights are verified through comprehensive experiments. To enhance the practical performance, we further introduce two algorithmic techniques. (1) We propose a Mean Squared Error (MSE) regularization along the time axis to achieve a more uniform reward distribution and improve reward learning outcomes. (2) We utilize imitation learning to approximate the reference policy, ensuring stability and effectiveness in training. Our findings underscore the multifaceted approach required for MARLHF, paving the way for effective preference-based multi-agent systems.





## Negation Blindness in Large Language Models: Unveiling the NO Syndrome in Image Generation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.00105v2
- **Authors**: ['Mohammad Nadeem', 'Shahab Saquib Sohail', 'Erik Cambria', 'Björn W. Schuller', 'Amir Hussain']
- **Abstrat**: Foundational Large Language Models (LLMs) have changed the way we perceive technology. They have been shown to excel in tasks ranging from poem writing and coding to essay generation and puzzle solving. With the incorporation of image generation capability, they have become more comprehensive and versatile AI tools. At the same time, researchers are striving to identify the limitations of these tools to improve them further. Currently identified flaws include hallucination, biases, and bypassing restricted commands to generate harmful content. In the present work, we have identified a fundamental limitation related to the image generation ability of LLMs, and termed it The NO Syndrome. This negation blindness refers to LLMs inability to correctly comprehend NO related natural language prompts to generate the desired images. Interestingly, all tested LLMs including GPT-4, Gemini, and Copilot were found to be suffering from this syndrome. To demonstrate the generalization of this limitation, we carried out simulation experiments and conducted entropy-based and benchmark statistical analysis tests on various LLMs in multiple languages, including English, Hindi, and French. We conclude that the NO syndrome is a significant flaw in current LLMs that needs to be addressed. A related finding of this study showed a consistent discrepancy between image and textual responses as a result of this NO syndrome. We posit that the introduction of a negation context-aware reinforcement learning based feedback loop between the LLMs textual response and generated image could help ensure the generated text is based on both the LLMs correct contextual understanding of the negation query and the generated visual output.





## Tractable Offline Learning of Regular Decision Processes
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02747v1
- **Authors**: ['Ahana Deb', 'Roberto Cipollone', 'Anders Jonsson', 'Alessandro Ronca', 'Mohammad Sadegh Talebi']
- **Abstrat**: This work studies offline Reinforcement Learning (RL) in a class of non-Markovian environments called Regular Decision Processes (RDPs). In RDPs, the unknown dependency of future observations and rewards from the past interactions can be captured by some hidden finite-state automaton. For this reason, many RDP algorithms first reconstruct this unknown dependency using automata learning techniques. In this paper, we show that it is possible to overcome two strong limitations of previous offline RL algorithms for RDPs, notably RegORL. This can be accomplished via the introduction of two original techniques: the development of a new pseudometric based on formal languages, which removes a problematic dependency on $L_\infty^\mathsf{p}$-distinguishability parameters, and the adoption of Count-Min-Sketch (CMS), instead of naive counting. The former reduces the number of samples required in environments that are characterized by a low complexity in language-theoretic terms. The latter alleviates the memory requirements for long planning horizons. We derive the PAC sample complexity bounds associated to each of these techniques, and we validate the approach experimentally.





## Surgical Task Automation Using Actor-Critic Frameworks and Self-Supervised Imitation Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02724v1
- **Authors**: ['Jingshuai Liu', 'Alain Andres', 'Yonghang Jiang', 'Xichun Luo', 'Wenmiao Shu', 'Sotirios Tsaftaris']
- **Abstrat**: Surgical robot task automation has recently attracted great attention due to its potential to benefit both surgeons and patients. Reinforcement learning (RL) based approaches have demonstrated promising ability to provide solutions to automated surgical manipulations on various tasks. To address the exploration challenge, expert demonstrations can be utilized to enhance the learning efficiency via imitation learning (IL) approaches. However, the successes of such methods normally rely on both states and action labels. Unfortunately action labels can be hard to capture or their manual annotation is prohibitively expensive owing to the requirement for expert knowledge. It therefore remains an appealing and open problem to leverage expert demonstrations composed of pure states in RL. In this work, we present an actor-critic RL framework, termed AC-SSIL, to overcome this challenge of learning with state-only demonstrations collected by following an unknown expert policy. It adopts a self-supervised IL method, dubbed SSIL, to effectively incorporate demonstrated states into RL paradigms by retrieving from demonstrates the nearest neighbours of the query state and utilizing the bootstrapping of actor networks. We showcase through experiments on an open-source surgical simulation platform that our method delivers remarkable improvements over the RL baseline and exhibits comparable performance against action based IL methods, which implies the efficacy and potential of our method for expert demonstration-guided learning scenarios.





## Decision Transformer for Enhancing Neural Local Search on the Job Shop Scheduling Problem
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02697v1
- **Authors**: ['Constantin Waubert de Puiseau', 'Fabian Wolz', 'Merlin Montag', 'Jannik Peters', 'Hasan Tercan', 'Tobias Meisen']
- **Abstrat**: The job shop scheduling problem (JSSP) and its solution algorithms have been of enduring interest in both academia and industry for decades. In recent years, machine learning (ML) is playing an increasingly important role in advancing existing and building new heuristic solutions for the JSSP, aiming to find better solutions in shorter computation times. In this paper we build on top of a state-of-the-art deep reinforcement learning (DRL) agent, called Neural Local Search (NLS), which can efficiently and effectively control a large local neighborhood search on the JSSP. In particular, we develop a method for training the decision transformer (DT) algorithm on search trajectories taken by a trained NLS agent to further improve upon the learned decision-making sequences. Our experiments show that the DT successfully learns local search strategies that are different and, in many cases, more effective than those of the NLS agent itself. In terms of the tradeoff between solution quality and acceptable computational time needed for the search, the DT is particularly superior in application scenarios where longer computational times are acceptable. In this case, it makes up for the longer inference times required per search step, which are caused by the larger neural network architecture, through better quality decisions per step. Thereby, the DT achieves state-of-the-art results for solving the JSSP with ML-enhanced search.





## Causality-Aware Transformer Networks for Robotic Navigation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02669v1
- **Authors**: ['Ruoyu Wang', 'Yao Liu', 'Yuanjiang Cao', 'Lina Yao']
- **Abstrat**: Recent advances in machine learning algorithms have garnered growing interest in developing versatile Embodied AI systems. However, current research in this domain reveals opportunities for improvement. First, the direct adoption of RNNs and Transformers often overlooks the specific differences between Embodied AI and traditional sequential data modelling, potentially limiting its performance in Embodied AI tasks. Second, the reliance on task-specific configurations, such as pre-trained modules and dataset-specific logic, compromises the generalizability of these methods. We address these constraints by initially exploring the unique differences between Embodied AI tasks and other sequential data tasks through the lens of Causality, presenting a causal framework to elucidate the inadequacies of conventional sequential methods for Embodied AI. By leveraging this causal perspective, we propose Causality-Aware Transformer (CAT) Networks for Navigation, featuring a Causal Understanding Module to enhance the models's Environmental Understanding capability. Meanwhile, our method is devoid of task-specific inductive biases and can be trained in an End-to-End manner, which enhances the method's generalizability across various contexts. Empirical evaluations demonstrate that our methodology consistently surpasses benchmark performances across a spectrum of settings, tasks and simulation environments. Extensive ablation studies reveal that the performance gains can be attributed to the Causal Understanding Module, which demonstrates effectiveness and efficiency in both Reinforcement Learning and Supervised Learning settings.





## A Survey on Emergent Language
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02645v1
- **Authors**: ['Jannik Peters', 'Constantin Waubert de Puiseau', 'Hasan Tercan', 'Arya Gopikrishnan', 'Gustavo Adolpho Lucas De Carvalho', 'Christian Bitter', 'Tobias Meisen']
- **Abstrat**: The field of emergent language represents a novel area of research within the domain of artificial intelligence, particularly within the context of multi-agent reinforcement learning. Although the concept of studying language emergence is not new, early approaches were primarily concerned with explaining human language formation, with little consideration given to its potential utility for artificial agents. In contrast, studies based on reinforcement learning aim to develop communicative capabilities in agents that are comparable to or even superior to human language. Thus, they extend beyond the learned statistical representations that are common in natural language processing research. This gives rise to a number of fundamental questions, from the prerequisites for language emergence to the criteria for measuring its success. This paper addresses these questions by providing a comprehensive review of 181 scientific publications on emergent language in artificial intelligence. Its objective is to serve as a reference for researchers interested in or proficient in the field. Consequently, the main contributions are the definition and overview of the prevailing terminology, the analysis of existing evaluation methods and metrics, and the description of the identified research gaps.





## Simultaneous Training of First- and Second-Order Optimizers in Population-Based Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.15421v2
- **Authors**: ['Felix Pfeiffer', 'Shahram Eivazi']
- **Abstrat**: The tuning of hyperparameters in reinforcement learning (RL) is critical, as these parameters significantly impact an agent's performance and learning efficiency. Dynamic adjustment of hyperparameters during the training process can significantly enhance both the performance and stability of learning. Population-based training (PBT) provides a method to achieve this by continuously tuning hyperparameters throughout the training. This ongoing adjustment enables models to adapt to different learning stages, resulting in faster convergence and overall improved performance. In this paper, we propose an enhancement to PBT by simultaneously utilizing both first- and second-order optimizers within a single population. We conducted a series of experiments using the TD3 algorithm across various MuJoCo environments. Our results, for the first time, empirically demonstrate the potential of incorporating second-order optimizers within PBT-based RL. Specifically, the combination of the K-FAC optimizer with Adam led to up to a 10% improvement in overall performance compared to PBT using only Adam. Additionally, in environments where Adam occasionally fails, such as the Swimmer environment, the mixed population with K-FAC exhibited more reliable learning outcomes, offering a significant advantage in training stability without a substantial increase in computational time.





## Continual Diffuser (CoD): Mastering Continual Offline Reinforcement Learning with Experience Rehearsal
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02512v1
- **Authors**: ['Jifeng Hu', 'Li Shen', 'Sili Huang', 'Zhejian Yang', 'Hechang Chen', 'Lichao Sun', 'Yi Chang', 'Dacheng Tao']
- **Abstrat**: Artificial neural networks, especially recent diffusion-based models, have shown remarkable superiority in gaming, control, and QA systems, where the training tasks' datasets are usually static. However, in real-world applications, such as robotic control of reinforcement learning (RL), the tasks are changing, and new tasks arise in a sequential order. This situation poses the new challenge of plasticity-stability trade-off for training an agent who can adapt to task changes and retain acquired knowledge. In view of this, we propose a rehearsal-based continual diffusion model, called Continual Diffuser (CoD), to endow the diffuser with the capabilities of quick adaptation (plasticity) and lasting retention (stability). Specifically, we first construct an offline benchmark that contains 90 tasks from multiple domains. Then, we train the CoD on each task with sequential modeling and conditional generation for making decisions. Next, we preserve a small portion of previous datasets as the rehearsal buffer and replay it to retain the acquired knowledge. Extensive experiments on a series of tasks show CoD can achieve a promising plasticity-stability trade-off and outperform existing diffusion-based methods and other representative baselines on most tasks.





# TD3
## Simultaneous Training of First- and Second-Order Optimizers in Population-Based Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.15421v2
- **Authors**: ['Felix Pfeiffer', 'Shahram Eivazi']
- **Abstrat**: The tuning of hyperparameters in reinforcement learning (RL) is critical, as these parameters significantly impact an agent's performance and learning efficiency. Dynamic adjustment of hyperparameters during the training process can significantly enhance both the performance and stability of learning. Population-based training (PBT) provides a method to achieve this by continuously tuning hyperparameters throughout the training. This ongoing adjustment enables models to adapt to different learning stages, resulting in faster convergence and overall improved performance. In this paper, we propose an enhancement to PBT by simultaneously utilizing both first- and second-order optimizers within a single population. We conducted a series of experiments using the TD3 algorithm across various MuJoCo environments. Our results, for the first time, empirically demonstrate the potential of incorporating second-order optimizers within PBT-based RL. Specifically, the combination of the K-FAC optimizer with Adam led to up to a 10% improvement in overall performance compared to PBT using only Adam. Additionally, in environments where Adam occasionally fails, such as the Swimmer environment, the mixed population with K-FAC exhibited more reliable learning outcomes, offering a significant advantage in training stability without a substantial increase in computational time.





# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## eRSS-RAMP: A Rule-Adherence Motion Planner Based on Extended Responsibility-Sensitive Safety for Autonomous Driving
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.02503v1
- **Authors**: ['Pengfei Lin', 'Ehsan Javanmardi', 'Yuze Jiang', 'Dou Hu', 'Shangkai Zhang', 'Manabu Tsukada']
- **Abstrat**: Driving safety and responsibility determination are indispensable pieces of the puzzle for autonomous driving. They are also deeply related to the allocation of right-of-way and the determination of accident liability. Therefore, Intel/Mobileye designed the responsibility-sensitive safety (RSS) framework to further enhance the safety regulation of autonomous driving, which mathematically defines rules for autonomous vehicles (AVs) behaviors in various traffic scenarios. However, the RSS framework's rules are relatively rudimentary in certain scenarios characterized by interaction uncertainty, especially those requiring collaborative driving during emergency collision avoidance. Besides, the integration of the RSS framework with motion planning is rarely discussed in current studies. Therefore, we proposed a rule-adherence motion planner (RAMP) based on the extended RSS (eRSS) regulation for non-connected and connected AVs in merging and emergency-avoiding scenarios. The simulation results indicate that the proposed method can achieve faster and safer lane merging performance (53.0% shorter merging length and a 73.5% decrease in merging time), and allows for more stable steering maneuvers in emergency collision avoidance, resulting in smoother paths for ego vehicle and surrounding vehicles.




