# reinforcement learning
## Trust, But Verify: A Self-Verification Approach to Reinforcement Learning with Verifiable Rewards
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.13445v1
- **Authors**: ['Xiaoyuan Liu', 'Tian Liang', 'Zhiwei He', 'Jiahao Xu', 'Wenxuan Wang', 'Pinjia He', 'Zhaopeng Tu', 'Haitao Mi', 'Dong Yu']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) show great promise in complex reasoning, with Reinforcement Learning with Verifiable Rewards (RLVR) being a key enhancement strategy. However, a prevalent issue is ``superficial self-reflection'', where models fail to robustly verify their own outputs. We introduce RISE (Reinforcing Reasoning with Self-Verification), a novel online RL framework designed to tackle this. RISE explicitly and simultaneously trains an LLM to improve both its problem-solving and self-verification abilities within a single, integrated RL process. The core mechanism involves leveraging verifiable rewards from an outcome verifier to provide on-the-fly feedback for both solution generation and self-verification tasks. In each iteration, the model generates solutions, then critiques its own on-policy generated solutions, with both trajectories contributing to the policy update. Extensive experiments on diverse mathematical reasoning benchmarks show that RISE consistently improves model's problem-solving accuracy while concurrently fostering strong self-verification skills. Our analyses highlight the advantages of online verification and the benefits of increased verification compute. Additionally, RISE models exhibit more frequent and accurate self-verification behaviors during reasoning. These advantages reinforce RISE as a flexible and effective path towards developing more robust and self-aware reasoners.





## Cosmos-Reason1: From Physical Common Sense To Embodied Reasoning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.15558v3
- **Authors**: ['NVIDIA', ':', 'Alisson Azzolini', 'Junjie Bai', 'Hannah Brandon', 'Jiaxin Cao', 'Prithvijit Chattopadhyay', 'Huayu Chen', 'Jinju Chu', 'Yin Cui', 'Jenna Diamond', 'Yifan Ding', 'Liang Feng', 'Francesco Ferroni', 'Rama Govindaraju', 'Jinwei Gu', 'Siddharth Gururani', 'Imad El Hanafi', 'Zekun Hao', 'Jacob Huffman', 'Jingyi Jin', 'Brendan Johnson', 'Rizwan Khan', 'George Kurian', 'Elena Lantz', 'Nayeon Lee', 'Zhaoshuo Li', 'Xuan Li', 'Maosheng Liao', 'Tsung-Yi Lin', 'Yen-Chen Lin', 'Ming-Yu Liu', 'Xiangyu Lu', 'Alice Luo', 'Andrew Mathau', 'Yun Ni', 'Lindsey Pavao', 'Wei Ping', 'David W. Romero', 'Misha Smelyanskiy', 'Shuran Song', 'Lyne Tchapmi', 'Andrew Z. Wang', 'Boxin Wang', 'Haoxiang Wang', 'Fangyin Wei', 'Jiashu Xu', 'Yao Xu', 'Dinghao Yang', 'Xiaodong Yang', 'Zhuolin Yang', 'Jingxu Zhang', 'Xiaohui Zeng', 'Zhe Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: Physical AI systems need to perceive, understand, and perform complex actions in the physical world. In this paper, we present the Cosmos-Reason1 models that can understand the physical world and generate appropriate embodied decisions (e.g., next step action) in natural language through long chain-of-thought reasoning processes. We begin by defining key capabilities for Physical AI reasoning, with a focus on physical common sense and embodied reasoning. To represent physical common sense, we use a hierarchical ontology that captures fundamental knowledge about space, time, and physics. For embodied reasoning, we rely on a two-dimensional ontology that generalizes across different physical embodiments. Building on these capabilities, we develop two multimodal large language models, Cosmos-Reason1-7B and Cosmos-Reason1-56B. We curate data and train our models in two stages: Physical AI supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and Physical AI reinforcement learning (RL). To evaluate our models, we build comprehensive benchmarks for physical common sense and embodied reasoning according to our ontologies. Evaluation results show that Physical AI SFT and RL bring significant improvements. To facilitate the development of Physical AI, we make our code and pre-trained models available under the NVIDIA Open Model License at https://github.com/nvidia-cosmos/cosmos-reason1.





## Optimizing Anytime Reasoning via Budget Relative Policy Optimization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.13438v1
- **Authors**: ['Penghui Qi', 'Zichen Liu', 'Tianyu Pang', 'Chao Du', 'Wee Sun Lee', 'Min Lin']
- **Abstrat**: Scaling test-time compute is crucial for enhancing the reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs). Existing approaches typically employ reinforcement learning (RL) to maximize a verifiable reward obtained at the end of reasoning traces. However, such methods optimize only the final performance under a large and fixed token budget, which hinders efficiency in both training and deployment. In this work, we present a novel framework, AnytimeReasoner, to optimize anytime reasoning performance, which aims to improve token efficiency and the flexibility of reasoning under varying token budget constraints. To achieve this, we truncate the complete thinking process to fit within sampled token budgets from a prior distribution, compelling the model to summarize the optimal answer for each truncated thinking for verification. This introduces verifiable dense rewards into the reasoning process, facilitating more effective credit assignment in RL optimization. We then optimize the thinking and summary policies in a decoupled manner to maximize the cumulative reward. Additionally, we introduce a novel variance reduction technique, Budget Relative Policy Optimization (BRPO), to enhance the robustness and efficiency of the learning process when reinforcing the thinking policy. Empirical results in mathematical reasoning tasks demonstrate that our method consistently outperforms GRPO across all thinking budgets under various prior distributions, enhancing both training and token efficiency.





## G1: Bootstrapping Perception and Reasoning Abilities of Vision-Language Model via Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.13426v1
- **Authors**: ['Liang Chen', 'Hongcheng Gao', 'Tianyu Liu', 'Zhiqi Huang', 'Flood Sung', 'Xinyu Zhou', 'Yuxin Wu', 'Baobao Chang']
- **Abstrat**: Vision-Language Models (VLMs) excel in many direct multimodal tasks but struggle to translate this prowess into effective decision-making within interactive, visually rich environments like games. This ``knowing-doing'' gap significantly limits their potential as autonomous agents, as leading VLMs often performing badly in simple games. To address this, we introduce VLM-Gym, a curated reinforcement learning (RL) environment featuring diverse visual games with unified interfaces and adjustable, compositional difficulty, specifically designed for scalable multi-game parallel training. Leveraging VLM-Gym, we train G0 models using pure RL-driven self-evolution, which demonstrate emergent perception and reasoning patterns. To further mitigate challenges arising from game diversity, we develop G1 models. G1 incorporates a perception-enhanced cold start prior to RL fine-tuning. Our resulting G1 models consistently surpass their teacher across all games and outperform leading proprietary models like Claude-3.7-Sonnet-Thinking. Systematic analysis reveals an intriguing finding: perception and reasoning abilities mutually bootstrap each other throughout the RL training process. Source code including VLM-Gym and RL training are released at https://github.com/chenllliang/G1 to foster future research in advancing VLMs as capable interactive agents.





## A Dataless Reinforcement Learning Approach to Rounding Hyperplane Optimization for Max-Cut
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.13405v1
- **Authors**: ['Gabriel Malikal', 'Ismail Alkhouri', 'Alvaro Velasquez', 'Adam M Alessio', 'Saiprasad Ravishankar']
- **Abstrat**: The Maximum Cut (MaxCut) problem is NP-Complete, and obtaining its optimal solution is NP-hard in the worst case. As a result, heuristic-based algorithms are commonly used, though their design often requires significant domain expertise. More recently, learning-based methods trained on large (un)labeled datasets have been proposed; however, these approaches often struggle with generalizability and scalability. A well-known approximation algorithm for MaxCut is the Goemans-Williamson (GW) algorithm, which relaxes the Quadratic Unconstrained Binary Optimization (QUBO) formulation into a semidefinite program (SDP). The GW algorithm then applies hyperplane rounding by uniformly sampling a random hyperplane to convert the SDP solution into binary node assignments. In this paper, we propose a training-data-free approach based on a non-episodic reinforcement learning formulation, in which an agent learns to select improved rounding hyperplanes that yield better cuts than those produced by the GW algorithm. By optimizing over a Markov Decision Process (MDP), our method consistently achieves better cuts across large-scale graphs with varying densities and degree distributions.





## Thinkless: LLM Learns When to Think
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.13379v1
- **Authors**: ['Gongfan Fang', 'Xinyin Ma', 'Xinchao Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Reasoning Language Models, capable of extended chain-of-thought reasoning, have demonstrated remarkable performance on tasks requiring complex logical inference. However, applying elaborate reasoning for all queries often results in substantial computational inefficiencies, particularly when many problems admit straightforward solutions. This motivates an open question: Can LLMs learn when to think? To answer this, we propose Thinkless, a learnable framework that empowers an LLM to adaptively select between short-form and long-form reasoning, based on both task complexity and the model's ability. Thinkless is trained under a reinforcement learning paradigm and employs two control tokens, <short> for concise responses and <think> for detailed reasoning. At the core of our method is a Decoupled Group Relative Policy Optimization (DeGRPO) algorithm, which decomposes the learning objective of hybrid reasoning into two components: (1) a control token loss that governs the selection of the reasoning mode, and (2) a response loss that improves the accuracy of the generated answers. This decoupled formulation enables fine-grained control over the contributions of each objective, stabilizing training and effectively preventing collapse observed in vanilla GRPO. Empirically, on several benchmarks such as Minerva Algebra, MATH-500, and GSM8K, Thinkless is able to reduce the usage of long-chain thinking by 50% -90%, significantly improving the efficiency of Reasoning Language Models. The code is available at https://github.com/VainF/Thinkless





## Exploiting Symbolic Heuristics for the Synthesis of Domain-Specific Temporal Planning Guidance using Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.13372v1
- **Authors**: ['Irene Brugnara', 'Alessandro Valentini', 'Andrea Micheli']
- **Abstrat**: Recent work investigated the use of Reinforcement Learning (RL) for the synthesis of heuristic guidance to improve the performance of temporal planners when a domain is fixed and a set of training problems (not plans) is given. The idea is to extract a heuristic from the value function of a particular (possibly infinite-state) MDP constructed over the training problems.   In this paper, we propose an evolution of this learning and planning framework that focuses on exploiting the information provided by symbolic heuristics during both the RL and planning phases. First, we formalize different reward schemata for the synthesis and use symbolic heuristics to mitigate the problems caused by the truncation of episodes needed to deal with the potentially infinite MDP. Second, we propose learning a residual of an existing symbolic heuristic, which is a "correction" of the heuristic value, instead of eagerly learning the whole heuristic from scratch. Finally, we use the learned heuristic in combination with a symbolic heuristic using a multiple-queue planning approach to balance systematic search with imperfect learned information. We experimentally compare all the approaches, highlighting their strengths and weaknesses and significantly advancing the state of the art for this planning and learning schema.





## Certifying Stability of Reinforcement Learning Policies using Generalized Lyapunov Functions
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.10947v2
- **Authors**: ['Kehan Long', 'Jorge Cortés', 'Nikolay Atanasov']
- **Abstrat**: We study the problem of certifying the stability of closed-loop systems under control policies derived from optimal control or reinforcement learning (RL). Classical Lyapunov methods require a strict step-wise decrease in the Lyapunov function but such a certificate is difficult to construct for a learned control policy. The value function associated with an RL policy is a natural Lyapunov function candidate but it is not clear how it should be modified. To gain intuition, we first study the linear quadratic regulator (LQR) problem and make two key observations. First, a Lyapunov function can be obtained from the value function of an LQR policy by augmenting it with a residual term related to the system dynamics and stage cost. Second, the classical Lyapunov decrease requirement can be relaxed to a generalized Lyapunov condition requiring only decrease on average over multiple time steps. Using this intuition, we consider the nonlinear setting and formulate an approach to learn generalized Lyapunov functions by augmenting RL value functions with neural network residual terms. Our approach successfully certifies the stability of RL policies trained on Gymnasium and DeepMind Control benchmarks. We also extend our method to jointly train neural controllers and stability certificates using a multi-step Lyapunov loss, resulting in larger certified inner approximations of the region of attraction compared to the classical Lyapunov approach. Overall, our formulation enables stability certification for a broad class of systems with learned policies by making certificates easier to construct, thereby bridging classical control theory and modern learning-based methods.





## Yes, Q-learning Helps Offline In-Context RL
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.17666v3
- **Authors**: ['Denis Tarasov', 'Alexander Nikulin', 'Ilya Zisman', 'Albina Klepach', 'Andrei Polubarov', 'Nikita Lyubaykin', 'Alexander Derevyagin', 'Igor Kiselev', 'Vladislav Kurenkov']
- **Abstrat**: Existing offline in-context reinforcement learning (ICRL) methods have predominantly relied on supervised training objectives, which are known to have limitations in offline RL settings. In this study, we explore the integration of RL objectives within an offline ICRL framework. Through experiments on more than 150 GridWorld and MuJoCo environment-derived datasets, we demonstrate that optimizing RL objectives directly improves performance by approximately 30% on average compared to widely adopted Algorithm Distillation (AD), across various dataset coverages, structures, expertise levels, and environmental complexities. Furthermore, in the challenging XLand-MiniGrid environment, RL objectives doubled the performance of AD. Our results also reveal that the addition of conservatism during value learning brings additional improvements in almost all settings tested. Our findings emphasize the importance of aligning ICRL learning objectives with the RL reward-maximization goal, and demonstrate that offline RL is a promising direction for advancing ICRL.





## Mixed-Precision Conjugate Gradient Solvers with RL-Driven Precision Tuning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.14268v3
- **Authors**: ['Xinye Chen']
- **Abstrat**: This paper presents a novel reinforcement learning (RL) framework for dynamically optimizing numerical precision in the preconditioned conjugate gradient (CG) method. By modeling precision selection as a Markov Decision Process (MDP), we employ Q-learning to adaptively assign precision levels to key operations, striking an optimal balance between computational efficiency and numerical accuracy, while ensuring stability through double-precision scalar computations and residual computing. In practice, the algorithm is trained on a set of data and subsequently performs inference for precision selection on out-of-sample data, without requiring re-analysis or retraining for new datasets. This enables the method to adapt seamlessly to new problem instances without the computational overhead of recalibration. Our results demonstrate the effectiveness of RL in enhancing solver's performance, marking the first application of RL to mixed-precision numerical methods. The findings highlight the approach's practical advantages, robustness, and scalability, providing valuable insights into its integration with iterative solvers and paving the way for AI-driven advancements in scientific computing.





## J4R: Learning to Judge with Equivalent Initial State Group Relative Preference Optimization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.13346v1
- **Authors**: ['Austin Xu', 'Yilun Zhou', 'Xuan-Phi Nguyen', 'Caiming Xiong', 'Shafiq Joty']
- **Abstrat**: To keep pace with the increasing pace of large language models (LLM) development, model output evaluation has transitioned away from time-consuming human evaluation to automatic evaluation, where LLMs themselves are tasked with assessing and critiquing other model outputs. LLM-as-judge models are a class of generative evaluators that excel in evaluating relatively simple domains, like chat quality, but struggle in reasoning intensive domains where model responses contain more substantive and challenging content. To remedy existing judge shortcomings, we explore training judges with reinforcement learning (RL). We make three key contributions: (1) We propose the Equivalent Initial State Group Relative Policy Optimization (EIS-GRPO) algorithm, which allows us to train our judge to be robust to positional biases that arise in more complex evaluation settings. (2) We introduce ReasoningJudgeBench, a benchmark that evaluates judges in diverse reasoning settings not covered by prior work. (3) We train Judge for Reasoning (J4R), a 7B judge trained with EIS-GRPO that outperforms GPT-4o and the next best small judge by 6.7% and 9%, matching or exceeding the performance of larger GRPO-trained judges on both JudgeBench and ReasoningJudgeBench.





## Neural-Enhanced Rate Adaptation and Computation Distribution for Emerging mmWave Multi-User 3D Video Streaming Systems
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.13337v1
- **Authors**: ['Babak Badnava', 'Jacob Chakareski', 'Morteza Hashemi']
- **Abstrat**: We investigate multitask edge-user communication-computation resource allocation for $360^\circ$ video streaming in an edge-computing enabled millimeter wave (mmWave) multi-user virtual reality system. To balance the communication-computation trade-offs that arise herein, we formulate a video quality maximization problem that integrates interdependent multitask/multi-user action spaces and rebuffering time/quality variation constraints. We formulate a deep reinforcement learning framework for \underline{m}ulti-\underline{t}ask \underline{r}ate adaptation and \underline{c}omputation distribution (MTRC) to solve the problem of interest. Our solution does not rely on a priori knowledge about the environment and uses only prior video streaming statistics (e.g., throughput, decoding time, and transmission delay), and content information, to adjust the assigned video bitrates and computation distribution, as it observes the induced streaming performance online. Moreover, to capture the task interdependence in the environment, we leverage neural network cascades to extend our MTRC method to two novel variants denoted as R1C2 and C1R2. We train all three methods with real-world mmWave network traces and $360^\circ$ video datasets to evaluate their performance in terms of expected quality of experience (QoE), viewport peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR), rebuffering time, and quality variation. We outperform state-of-the-art rate adaptation algorithms, with C1R2 showing best results and achieving $5.21-6.06$ dB PSNR gains, $2.18-2.70$x rebuffering time reduction, and $4.14-4.50$ dB quality variation reduction.





## CSC-SQL: Corrective Self-Consistency in Text-to-SQL via Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.13271v1
- **Authors**: ['Lei Sheng', 'Shuai-Shuai Xu']
- **Abstrat**: Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated strong capabilities in translating natural language questions about relational databases into SQL queries. In particular, test-time scaling techniques such as Self-Consistency and Self-Correction can enhance SQL generation accuracy by increasing computational effort during inference. However, these methods have notable limitations: Self-Consistency may select suboptimal outputs despite majority votes, while Self-Correction typically addresses only syntactic errors. To leverage the strengths of both approaches, we propose CSC-SQL, a novel method that integrates Self-Consistency and Self-Correction. CSC-SQL selects the two most frequently occurring outputs from parallel sampling and feeds them into a merge revision model for correction. Additionally, we employ the Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO) algorithm to fine-tune both the SQL generation and revision models via reinforcement learning, significantly enhancing output quality. Experimental results confirm the effectiveness and generalizability of CSC-SQL. On the BIRD development set, our 3B model achieves 65.28% execution accuracy, while the 7B model achieves 69.19%. The code will be open sourced at https://github.com/CycloneBoy/csc_sql.





## Unlocking the Potential of Difficulty Prior in RL-based Multimodal Reasoning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.13261v1
- **Authors**: ['Mingrui Chen', 'Haogeng Liu', 'Hao Liang', 'Huaibo Huang', 'Wentao Zhang', 'Ran He']
- **Abstrat**: In this work, we investigate how explicitly modeling problem's difficulty prior information shapes the effectiveness of reinforcement learning based fine-tuning for multimodal reasoning. Our exploration mainly comprises of following three perspective: First, through offline data curation, we analyze the U-shaped difficulty distribution of two given datasets using the base model by multi-round sampling, and then filter out prompts that are either too simple or extremely difficult to provide meaningful gradients and perform subsequent two-stage training. Second, we implement an online advantage differentiation, computing group-wise empirical accuracy as a difficulty proxy to adaptively reweight advantages estimation, providing stronger learning signals for more challenging problems. Finally, we introduce difficulty hints as explicit prompts for more complex samples in the second training stage, encouraging the model to calibrate its reasoning depth and perform reflective validation checks. Our comprehensive approach demonstrates significant performances across various multi-modal mathematical reasoning benchmarks with only 2K+0.6K two-stage training data.





## Effective and Transparent RAG: Adaptive-Reward Reinforcement Learning for Decision Traceability
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.13258v1
- **Authors**: ['Jingyi Ren', 'Yekun Xu', 'Xiaolong Wang', 'Weitao Li', 'Weizhi Ma', 'Yang Liu']
- **Abstrat**: Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has significantly improved the performance of large language models (LLMs) on knowledge-intensive domains. However, although RAG achieved successes across distinct domains, there are still some unsolved challenges: 1) Effectiveness. Existing research mainly focuses on developing more powerful RAG retrievers, but how to enhance the generator's (LLM's) ability to utilize the retrieved information for reasoning and generation? 2) Transparency. Most RAG methods ignore which retrieved content actually contributes to the reasoning process, resulting in a lack of interpretability and visibility. To address this, we propose ARENA (Adaptive-Rewarded Evidence Navigation Agent), a transparent RAG generator framework trained via reinforcement learning (RL) with our proposed rewards. Based on the structured generation and adaptive reward calculation, our RL-based training enables the model to identify key evidence, perform structured reasoning, and generate answers with interpretable decision traces. Applied to Qwen2.5-7B-Instruct and Llama3.1-8B-Instruct, abundant experiments with various RAG baselines demonstrate that our model achieves 10-30% improvements on all multi-hop QA datasets, which is comparable with the SOTA Commercially-developed LLMs (e.g., OpenAI-o1, DeepSeek-R1). Further analyses show that ARENA has strong flexibility to be adopted on new datasets without extra training. Our models and codes are publicly released.





## Composing Dextrous Grasping and In-hand Manipulation via Scoring with a Reinforcement Learning Critic
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.13253v1
- **Authors**: ['Lennart Röstel', 'Dominik Winkelbauer', 'Johannes Pitz', 'Leon Sievers', 'Berthold Bäuml']
- **Abstrat**: In-hand manipulation and grasping are fundamental yet often separately addressed tasks in robotics. For deriving in-hand manipulation policies, reinforcement learning has recently shown great success. However, the derived controllers are not yet useful in real-world scenarios because they often require a human operator to place the objects in suitable initial (grasping) states. Finding stable grasps that also promote the desired in-hand manipulation goal is an open problem. In this work, we propose a method for bridging this gap by leveraging the critic network of a reinforcement learning agent trained for in-hand manipulation to score and select initial grasps. Our experiments show that this method significantly increases the success rate of in-hand manipulation without requiring additional training. We also present an implementation of a full grasp manipulation pipeline on a real-world system, enabling autonomous grasping and reorientation even of unwieldy objects.





## Resource Allocation for RIS-Assisted CoMP-NOMA Networks using Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.00975v3
- **Authors**: ['Muhammad Umer', 'Muhammad Ahmed Mohsin', 'Huma Ghafoor', 'Syed Ali Hassan']
- **Abstrat**: This thesis delves into the forefront of wireless communication by exploring the synergistic integration of three transformative technologies: STAR-RIS, CoMP, and NOMA. Driven by the ever-increasing demand for higher data rates, improved spectral efficiency, and expanded coverage in the evolving landscape of 6G development, this research investigates the potential of these technologies to revolutionize future wireless networks.   The thesis analyzes the performance gains achievable through strategic deployment of STAR-RIS, focusing on mitigating inter-cell interference, enhancing signal strength, and extending coverage to cell-edge users. Resource sharing strategies for STAR-RIS elements are explored, optimizing both transmission and reflection functionalities. Analytical frameworks are developed to quantify the benefits of STAR-RIS assisted CoMP-NOMA networks under realistic channel conditions, deriving key performance metrics such as ergodic rates and outage probabilities. Additionally, the research delves into energy-efficient design approaches for CoMP-NOMA networks incorporating RIS, proposing novel RIS configurations and optimization algorithms to achieve a balance between performance and energy consumption. Furthermore, the application of Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) techniques for intelligent and adaptive optimization in aerial RIS-assisted CoMP-NOMA networks is explored, aiming to maximize network sum rate while meeting user quality of service requirements. Through a comprehensive investigation of these technologies and their synergistic potential, this thesis contributes valuable insights into the future of wireless communication, paving the way for the development of more efficient, reliable, and sustainable networks capable of meeting the demands of our increasingly connected world.





## SocialJax: An Evaluation Suite for Multi-agent Reinforcement Learning in Sequential Social Dilemmas
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.14576v2
- **Authors**: ['Zihao Guo', 'Shuqing Shi', 'Richard Willis', 'Tristan Tomilin', 'Joel Z. Leibo', 'Yali Du']
- **Abstrat**: Sequential social dilemmas pose a significant challenge in the field of multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL), requiring environments that accurately reflect the tension between individual and collective interests. Previous benchmarks and environments, such as Melting Pot, provide an evaluation protocol that measures generalization to new social partners in various test scenarios. However, running reinforcement learning algorithms in traditional environments requires substantial computational resources. In this paper, we introduce SocialJax, a suite of sequential social dilemma environments and algorithms implemented in JAX. JAX is a high-performance numerical computing library for Python that enables significant improvements in operational efficiency. Our experiments demonstrate that the SocialJax training pipeline achieves at least 50\texttimes{} speed-up in real-time performance compared to Melting Pot RLlib baselines. Additionally, we validate the effectiveness of baseline algorithms within SocialJax environments. Finally, we use Schelling diagrams to verify the social dilemma properties of these environments, ensuring that they accurately capture the dynamics of social dilemmas.





## Reinforcement Learning: An Overview
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.05265v3
- **Authors**: ['Kevin Murphy']
- **Abstrat**: This manuscript gives a big-picture, up-to-date overview of the field of (deep) reinforcement learning and sequential decision making, covering value-based methods, policy-based methods, model-based methods, multi-agent RL, LLMs and RL, and various other topics (e.g., offline RL, hierarchical RL, intrinsic reward).





## When a Reinforcement Learning Agent Encounters Unknown Unknowns
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.13188v1
- **Authors**: ['Juntian Zhu', 'Miguel de Carvalho', 'Zhouwang Yang', 'Fengxiang He']
- **Abstrat**: An AI agent might surprisingly find she has reached an unknown state which she has never been aware of -- an unknown unknown. We mathematically ground this scenario in reinforcement learning: an agent, after taking an action calculated from value functions $Q$ and $V$ defined on the {\it {aware domain}}, reaches a state out of the domain. To enable the agent to handle this scenario, we propose an {\it episodic Markov decision {process} with growing awareness} (EMDP-GA) model, taking a new {\it noninformative value expansion} (NIVE) approach to expand value functions to newly aware areas: when an agent arrives at an unknown unknown, value functions $Q$ and $V$ whereon are initialised by noninformative beliefs -- the averaged values on the aware domain. This design is out of respect for the complete absence of knowledge in the newly discovered state. The upper confidence bound momentum Q-learning is then adapted to the growing awareness for training the EMDP-GA model. We prove that (1) the regret of our approach is asymptotically consistent with the state of the art (SOTA) without exposure to unknown unknowns in an extremely uncertain environment, and (2) our computational complexity and space complexity are comparable with the SOTA -- these collectively suggest that though an unknown unknown is surprising, it will be asymptotically properly discovered with decent speed and an affordable cost.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Hybrid Voting-Based Task Assignment in Modular Construction Scenarios
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.13278v1
- **Authors**: ['Daniel Weiner', 'Raj Korpan']
- **Abstrat**: Modular construction, involving off-site prefabrication and on-site assembly, offers significant advantages but presents complex coordination challenges for robotic automation. Effective task allocation is critical for leveraging multi-agent systems (MAS) in these structured environments. This paper introduces the Hybrid Voting-Based Task Assignment (HVBTA) framework, a novel approach to optimizing collaboration between heterogeneous multi-agent construction teams. Inspired by human reasoning in task delegation, HVBTA uniquely integrates multiple voting mechanisms with the capabilities of a Large Language Model (LLM) for nuanced suitability assessment between agent capabilities and task requirements. The framework operates by assigning Capability Profiles to agents and detailed requirement lists called Task Descriptions to construction tasks, subsequently generating a quantitative Suitability Matrix. Six distinct voting methods, augmented by a pre-trained LLM, analyze this matrix to robustly identify the optimal agent for each task. Conflict-Based Search (CBS) is integrated for decentralized, collision-free path planning, ensuring efficient and safe spatio-temporal coordination of the robotic team during assembly operations. HVBTA enables efficient, conflict-free assignment and coordination, facilitating potentially faster and more accurate modular assembly. Current work is evaluating HVBTA's performance across various simulated construction scenarios involving diverse robotic platforms and task complexities. While designed as a generalizable framework for any domain with clearly definable tasks and capabilities, HVBTA will be particularly effective for addressing the demanding coordination requirements of multi-agent collaborative robotics in modular construction due to the predetermined construction planning involved.





## Neurosymbolic Diffusion Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.13138v1
- **Authors**: ['Emile van Krieken', 'Pasquale Minervini', 'Edoardo Ponti', 'Antonio Vergari']
- **Abstrat**: Neurosymbolic (NeSy) predictors combine neural perception with symbolic reasoning to solve tasks like visual reasoning. However, standard NeSy predictors assume conditional independence between the symbols they extract, thus limiting their ability to model interactions and uncertainty - often leading to overconfident predictions and poor out-of-distribution generalisation. To overcome the limitations of the independence assumption, we introduce neurosymbolic diffusion models (NeSyDMs), a new class of NeSy predictors that use discrete diffusion to model dependencies between symbols. Our approach reuses the independence assumption from NeSy predictors at each step of the diffusion process, enabling scalable learning while capturing symbol dependencies and uncertainty quantification. Across both synthetic and real-world benchmarks - including high-dimensional visual path planning and rule-based autonomous driving - NeSyDMs achieve state-of-the-art accuracy among NeSy predictors and demonstrate strong calibration.




