# reinforcement learning
## Optimizing Test-Time Compute via Meta Reinforcement Fine-Tuning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07572v1
- **Authors**: ['Yuxiao Qu', 'Matthew Y. R. Yang', 'Amrith Setlur', 'Lewis Tunstall', 'Edward Emanuel Beeching', 'Ruslan Salakhutdinov', 'Aviral Kumar']
- **Abstrat**: Training models to effectively use test-time compute is crucial for improving the reasoning performance of LLMs. Current methods mostly do so via fine-tuning on search traces or running RL with 0/1 outcome reward, but do these approaches efficiently utilize test-time compute? Would these approaches continue to scale as the budget improves? In this paper, we try to answer these questions. We formalize the problem of optimizing test-time compute as a meta-reinforcement learning (RL) problem, which provides a principled perspective on spending test-time compute. This perspective enables us to view the long output stream from the LLM as consisting of several episodes run at test time and leads us to use a notion of cumulative regret over output tokens as a way to measure the efficacy of test-time compute. Akin to how RL algorithms can best tradeoff exploration and exploitation over training, minimizing cumulative regret would also provide the best balance between exploration and exploitation in the token stream. While we show that state-of-the-art models do not minimize regret, one can do so by maximizing a dense reward bonus in conjunction with the outcome 0/1 reward RL. This bonus is the ''progress'' made by each subsequent block in the output stream, quantified by the change in the likelihood of eventual success. Using these insights, we develop Meta Reinforcement Fine-Tuning, or MRT, a new class of fine-tuning methods for optimizing test-time compute. MRT leads to a 2-3x relative gain in performance and roughly a 1.5x gain in token efficiency for math reasoning compared to outcome-reward RL.





## Modeling the Centaur: Human-Machine Synergy in Sequential Decision Making
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.18593v2
- **Authors**: ['David Shoresh', 'Yonatan Loewenstein']
- **Abstrat**: The field of collective intelligence studies how teams can achieve better results than any of the team members alone. The special case of human-machine teams carries unique challenges in this regard. For example, human teams often achieve synergy by communicating to discover their relative advantages, which is not an option if the team partner is an unexplainable deep neural network. Between 2005-2008 a set of "freestyle" chess tournaments were held, in which human-machine teams known as "centaurs", outperformed the best humans and best machines alone. Centaur players reported that they identified relative advantages between themselves and their chess program, even though the program was superhuman. Inspired by this and leveraging recent open-source models, we study human-machine like teams in chess. A human behavioral clone ("Maia") and a pure self-play RL-trained chess engine ("Leela") were composed into a team using a Mixture of Experts (MoE) architecture. By directing our research question at the selection mechanism of the MoE, we could isolate the issue of extracting relative advantages without knowledge sharing. We show that in principle, there is high potential for synergy between human and machine in a complex sequential decision environment such as chess. Furthermore, we show that an expert can identify only a small part of these relative advantages, and that the contribution of its subject matter expertise in doing so saturates quickly. This is probably due to the "curse of knowledge" phenomenon. We also train a network to recognize relative advantages using reinforcement learning, without chess expertise, and it outdoes the expert. Our experiments are repeated in asymmetric teams, in which identifying relative advantages is more challenging. Our findings contribute to the study of collective intelligence and human-centric AI.





## LMM-R1: Empowering 3B LMMs with Strong Reasoning Abilities Through Two-Stage Rule-Based RL
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07536v1
- **Authors**: ['Yingzhe Peng', 'Gongrui Zhang', 'Miaosen Zhang', 'Zhiyuan You', 'Jie Liu', 'Qipeng Zhu', 'Kai Yang', 'Xingzhong Xu', 'Xin Geng', 'Xu Yang']
- **Abstrat**: Enhancing reasoning in Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) faces unique challenges from the complex interplay between visual perception and logical reasoning, particularly in compact 3B-parameter architectures where architectural constraints limit reasoning capacity and modality alignment.   While rule-based reinforcement learning (RL) excels in text-only domains, its multimodal extension confronts two critical barriers: (1) data limitations due to ambiguous answers and scarce complex reasoning examples, and (2) degraded foundational reasoning induced by multimodal pretraining.   To address these challenges, we propose \textbf{\method}, a two-stage framework adapting rule-based RL for multimodal reasoning through \textbf{Foundational Reasoning Enhancement (FRE)} followed by \textbf{Multimodal Generalization Training (MGT)}. The FRE stage first strengthens reasoning abilities using text-only data with rule-based RL, then the MGT stage generalizes these reasoning capabilities to multimodal domains.   Experiments on Qwen2.5-VL-Instruct-3B demonstrate that \method achieves 4.83\% and 4.5\% average improvements over baselines in multimodal and text-only benchmarks, respectively, with a 3.63\% gain in complex Football Game tasks. These results validate that text-based reasoning enhancement enables effective multimodal generalization, offering a data-efficient paradigm that bypasses costly high-quality multimodal training data.





## VisRL: Intention-Driven Visual Perception via Reinforced Reasoning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07523v1
- **Authors**: ['Zhangquan Chen', 'Xufang Luo', 'Dongsheng Li']
- **Abstrat**: Visual understanding is inherently intention-driven - humans selectively focus on different regions of a scene based on their goals. Recent advances in large multimodal models (LMMs) enable flexible expression of such intentions through natural language, allowing queries to guide visual reasoning processes. Frameworks like Visual Chain-of-Thought have demonstrated the benefit of incorporating explicit reasoning steps, where the model predicts a focus region before answering a query. However, existing approaches rely heavily on supervised training with annotated intermediate bounding boxes, which severely limits scalability due to the combinatorial explosion of intention-region pairs. To overcome this limitation, we propose VisRL, the first framework that applies reinforcement learning (RL) to the problem of intention-driven visual perception. VisRL optimizes the entire visual reasoning process using only reward signals. By treating intermediate focus selection as a internal decision optimized through trial-and-error, our method eliminates the need for costly region annotations while aligning more closely with how humans learn to perceive the world. Extensive experiments across multiple benchmarks show that VisRL consistently outperforms strong baselines, demonstrating both its effectiveness and its strong generalization across different LMMs. Our code is available at this [URL](https://github.com/zhangquanchen/VisRL).





## Maintaining Plasticity in Reinforcement Learning: A Cost-Aware Framework for Aerial Robot Control in Non-stationary Environments
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.00282v2
- **Authors**: ['Ali Tahir Karasahin', 'Ziniu Wu', 'Basaran Bahadir Kocer']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning (RL) has demonstrated the ability to maintain the plasticity of the policy throughout short-term training in aerial robot control. However, these policies have been shown to loss of plasticity when extended to long-term learning in non-stationary environments. For example, the standard proximal policy optimization (PPO) policy is observed to collapse in long-term training settings and lead to significant control performance degradation. To address this problem, this work proposes a cost-aware framework that uses a retrospective cost mechanism (RECOM) to balance rewards and losses in RL training with a non-stationary environment. Using a cost gradient relation between rewards and losses, our framework dynamically updates the learning rate to actively train the control policy in a disturbed wind environment. Our experimental results show that our framework learned a policy for the hovering task without policy collapse in variable wind conditions and has a successful result of 11.29% less dormant units than L2 regularization with PPO.





## Less is more? Rewards in RL for Cyber Defence
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.03245v2
- **Authors**: ['Elizabeth Bates', 'Chris Hicks', 'Vasilios Mavroudis']
- **Abstrat**: The last few years have seen an explosion of interest in autonomous cyber defence agents based on deep reinforcement learning. Such agents are typically trained in a cyber gym environment, also known as a cyber simulator, at least 32 of which have already been built. Most, if not all cyber gyms provide dense "scaffolded" reward functions which combine many penalties or incentives for a range of (un)desirable states and costly actions. Whilst dense rewards help alleviate the challenge of exploring complex environments, yielding seemingly effective strategies from relatively few environment steps; they are also known to bias the solutions an agent can find, potentially towards suboptimal solutions. This is especially a problem in complex cyber environments where policy weaknesses may not be noticed until exploited by an adversary. In this work we set out to evaluate whether sparse reward functions might enable training more effective cyber defence agents. Towards this goal we first break down several evaluation limitations in existing work by proposing a ground truth evaluation score that goes beyond the standard RL paradigm used to train and evaluate agents. By adapting a well-established cyber gym to accommodate our methodology and ground truth score, we propose and evaluate two sparse reward mechanisms and compare them with a typical dense reward. Our evaluation considers a range of network sizes, from 2 to 50 nodes, and both reactive and proactive defensive actions. Our results show that sparse rewards, particularly positive reinforcement for an uncompromised network state, enable the training of more effective cyber defence agents. Furthermore, we show that sparse rewards provide more stable training than dense rewards, and that both effectiveness and training stability are robust to a variety of cyber environment considerations.





## Is a Good Foundation Necessary for Efficient Reinforcement Learning? The Computational Role of the Base Model in Exploration
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07453v1
- **Authors**: ['Dylan J. Foster', 'Zakaria Mhammedi', 'Dhruv Rohatgi']
- **Abstrat**: Language model alignment (or, reinforcement learning) techniques that leverage active exploration -- deliberately encouraging the model to produce diverse, informative responses -- offer the promise of super-human capabilities. However, current understanding of algorithm design primitives for computationally efficient exploration with language models is limited. To better understand how to leverage access to powerful pre-trained generative models to improve the efficiency of exploration, we introduce a new computational framework for RL with language models, in which the learner interacts with the model through a sampling oracle. Focusing on the linear softmax model parameterization, we provide new results that reveal the computational-statistical tradeoffs of efficient exploration:   1. Necessity of coverage: Coverage refers to the extent to which the pre-trained model covers near-optimal responses -- a form of hidden knowledge. We show that coverage, while not necessary for data efficiency, lower bounds the runtime of any algorithm in our framework.   2. Inference-time exploration: We introduce a new algorithm, SpannerSampling, which obtains optimal data efficiency and is computationally efficient whenever the pre-trained model enjoys sufficient coverage, matching our lower bound. SpannerSampling leverages inference-time computation with the pre-trained model to reduce the effective search space for exploration.   3. Insufficiency of training-time interventions: We contrast the result above by showing that training-time interventions that produce proper policies cannot achieve similar guarantees in polynomial time.   4. Computational benefits of multi-turn exploration: Finally, we show that under additional representational assumptions, one can achieve improved runtime (replacing sequence-level coverage with token-level coverage) through multi-turn exploration.





## DRESS: Diffusion Reasoning-based Reward Shaping Scheme For Intelligent Networks
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07433v1
- **Authors**: ['Feiran You', 'Hongyang Du', 'Xiangwang Hou', 'Yong Ren', 'Kaibin Huang']
- **Abstrat**: Network optimization remains fundamental in wireless communications, with Artificial Intelligence (AI)-based solutions gaining widespread adoption. As Sixth-Generation (6G) communication networks pursue full-scenario coverage, optimization in complex extreme environments presents unprecedented challenges. The dynamic nature of these environments, combined with physical constraints, makes it difficult for AI solutions such as Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) to obtain effective reward feedback for the training process. However, many existing DRL-based network optimization studies overlook this challenge through idealized environment settings. Inspired by the powerful capabilities of Generative AI (GenAI), especially diffusion models, in capturing complex latent distributions, we introduce a novel Diffusion Reasoning-based Reward Shaping Scheme (DRESS) to achieve robust network optimization. By conditioning on observed environmental states and executed actions, DRESS leverages diffusion models' multi-step denoising process as a form of deep reasoning, progressively refining latent representations to generate meaningful auxiliary reward signals that capture patterns of network systems. Moreover, DRESS is designed for seamless integration with any DRL framework, allowing DRESS-aided DRL (DRESSed-DRL) to enable stable and efficient DRL training even under extreme network environments. Experimental results demonstrate that DRESSed-DRL achieves about 1.5x times faster convergence than its original version in sparse-reward wireless environments and significant performance improvements in multiple general DRL benchmark environments compared to baseline methods. The code of DRESS is available at https://github.com/NICE-HKU/DRESS.





## The Interplay of AI-and-RAN: Dynamic Resource Allocation for Converged 6G Platform
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07420v1
- **Authors**: ['Syed Danial Ali Shah', 'Zeinab Nezami', 'Maryam Hafeez', 'Syed Ali Raza Zaidi']
- **Abstrat**: The concept of AI-RAN as specified by the AI-RAN alliance is geared to explore a converged 6G platform that can support management, orchestration, and deployment of both AI and RAN workloads. This concept is central to the development of a 6G architecture that aims to exploit the accelerated compute capabilities for supporting both real-time signal processing and offloading of Generative AI (GenAI) workloads. However, both the architectural framework required to support this vision and the dynamic resource allocation strategy are still in their infancy. The O-RAN architecture intrinsically allows cloud-native disaggregated implementation. Consequently, we explore a framework that can allow orchestration of AI-and-RAN workloads by expanding the Near Real-Time RAN Intelligent Controller (NRT-RIC) within O-RAN. The framework incorporates a monitoring xApp that tracks RAN KPIs and exposes radio analytics to the proposed E2E orchestrator via a recently introduced Y1 interface. The orchestrator implements a Soft Actor-Critic (SAC) reinforcement learning algorithm to dynamically allocate critical computing resources, e.g., Multi-Instance GPUs (MIGs), between latency-sensitive RAN network functions and computationally intensive AI workloads on shared RAN infrastructure. The proposed framework provides insight on how the traditional RAN architecture can be evolved to inherently support emerging GenAI workloads. Our framework prioritizes the real-time requirements of RAN workloads while maintaining efficient resource sharing for AI applications. The simulation results demonstrate the benefits of the proposed framework, as it meets nearly 99% of the requests for RAN workload while effectively supporting AI workloads and achieving 100% utilization of the RAN infrastructure resources in a dynamic environment.





## Cost-Effective Design of Grid-tied Community Microgrid
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07414v1
- **Authors**: ['Moslem Uddin', 'Huadong Mo', 'Daoyi Dong']
- **Abstrat**: This study aims to develop a cost-effective microgrid design that optimally balances the economic feasibility, reliability, efficiency, and environmental impact in a grid-tied community microgrid. A multi-objective optimization framework is employed, integrating HOMER Pro for system sizing with deep reinforcement learning (DRL). Sensitivity analyses are conducted to evaluate the system performance under varying load demand and renewable energy fluctuations, while an economic sensitivity assessment examines the impact of electricity prices and capital costs on the Levelized Cost of Energy (LCOE). The proposed microgrid configuration achieves high reliability, satisfying 100% of the load, even under adverse weather conditions. The proposed framework attains an efficiency of 91.99% while maintaining a carbon footprint of 302,747 kg/year, which is approximately 95% lower than that of the grid system. The economic analysis indicates a net present cost (NPC) of $4.83M with a competitive LCOE of $0.208/kWh. In addition, the operation cost is $201,473 per year with a capital investment of $1.42M, rendering it a financially viable alternative to conventional grid-dependent systems.This work can be valuable in identifying effective solutions for supplying reliable and cost-effective power to regional and remote areas.





## PER-DPP Sampling Framework and Its Application in Path Planning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07411v1
- **Authors**: ['Junzhe Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Autonomous navigation in intelligent mobile systems represents a core research focus within artificial intelligence-driven robotics. Contemporary path planning approaches face constraints in dynamic environmental responsiveness and multi-objective task scalability, limiting their capacity to address growing intelligent operation requirements. Decision-centric reinforcement learning frameworks, capitalizing on their unique strengths in adaptive environmental interaction and self-optimization, have gained prominence in advanced control system research. This investigation introduces methodological improvements to address sample homogeneity challenges in reinforcement learning experience replay mechanisms. By incorporating determinant point processes (DPP) for diversity assessment, we develop a dual-criteria sampling framework with adaptive selection protocols. This approach resolves representation bias in conventional prioritized experience replay (PER) systems while preserving algorithmic interoperability, offering improved decision optimization for dynamic operational scenarios. Key contributions comprise: Develop a hybrid sampling paradigm (PER-DPP) combining priority sequencing with diversity maximization.Based on this,create an integrated optimization scheme (PER-DPP-Elastic DQN) merging diversity-aware sampling with adaptive step-size regulation. Comparative simulations in 2D navigation scenarios demonstrate that the elastic step-size component temporarily delays initial convergence speed but synergistically enhances final-stage optimization with PER-DPP integration. The synthesized method generates navigation paths with optimized length efficiency and directional stability.





## Context-Based Meta Reinforcement Learning for Robust and Adaptable Peg-in-Hole Assembly Tasks
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.16208v3
- **Authors**: ['Ahmed Shokry', 'Walid Gomaa', 'Tobias Zaenker', 'Murad Dawood', 'Rohit Menon', 'Shady A. Maged', 'Mohammed I. Awad', 'Maren Bennewitz']
- **Abstrat**: Autonomous assembly is an essential capability for industrial and service robots, with Peg-in-Hole (PiH) insertion being one of the core tasks. However, PiH assembly in unknown environments is still challenging due to uncertainty in task parameters, such as the hole position and orientation, resulting from sensor noise. Although context-based meta reinforcement learning (RL) methods have been previously presented to adapt to unknown task parameters in PiH assembly tasks, the performance depends on a sample-inefficient procedure or human demonstrations. Thus, to enhance the applicability of meta RL in real-world PiH assembly tasks, we propose to train the agent to use information from the robot's forward kinematics and an uncalibrated camera. Furthermore, we improve the performance by efficiently adapting the meta-trained agent to use data from force/torque sensor. Finally, we propose an adaptation procedure for out-of-distribution tasks whose parameters are different from the training tasks. Experiments on simulated and real robots prove that our modifications enhance the sample efficiency during meta training, real-world adaptation performance, and generalization of the context-based meta RL agent in PiH assembly tasks compared to previous approaches.





## Towards Safe Robot Foundation Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07404v1
- **Authors**: ['Maximilian Tölle', 'Theo Gruner', 'Daniel Palenicek', 'Jonas Günster', 'Puze Liu', 'Joe Watson', 'Davide Tateo', 'Jan Peters']
- **Abstrat**: Robot foundation models hold the potential for deployment across diverse environments, from industrial applications to household tasks. While current research focuses primarily on the policies' generalization capabilities across a variety of tasks, it fails to address safety, a critical requirement for deployment on real-world systems. In this paper, we introduce a safety layer designed to constrain the action space of any generalist policy appropriately. Our approach uses ATACOM, a safe reinforcement learning algorithm that creates a safe action space and, therefore, ensures safe state transitions. By extending ATACOM to generalist policies, our method facilitates their deployment in safety-critical scenarios without requiring any specific safety fine-tuning. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this safety layer in an air hockey environment, where it prevents a puck-hitting agent from colliding with its surroundings, a failure observed in generalist policies.





## Q-MARL: A quantum-inspired algorithm using neural message passing for large-scale multi-agent reinforcement learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07397v1
- **Authors**: ['Kha Vo', 'Chin-Teng Lin']
- **Abstrat**: Inspired by a graph-based technique for predicting molecular properties in quantum chemistry -- atoms' position within molecules in three-dimensional space -- we present Q-MARL, a completely decentralised learning architecture that supports very large-scale multi-agent reinforcement learning scenarios without the need for strong assumptions like common rewards or agent order. The key is to treat each agent as relative to its surrounding agents in an environment that is presumed to change dynamically. Hence, in each time step, an agent is the centre of its own neighbourhood and also a neighbour to many other agents. Each role is formulated as a sub-graph, and each sub-graph is used as a training sample. A message-passing neural network supports full-scale vertex and edge interaction within a local neighbourhood, while a parameter governing the depth of the sub-graphs eases the training burden. During testing, an agent's actions are locally ensembled across all the sub-graphs that contain it, resulting in robust decisions. Where other approaches struggle to manage 50 agents, Q-MARL can easily marshal thousands. A detailed theoretical analysis proves improvement and convergence, and simulations with the typical collaborative and competitive scenarios show dramatically faster training speeds and reduced training losses.





## MM-Eureka: Exploring Visual Aha Moment with Rule-based Large-scale Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07365v1
- **Authors**: ['Fanqing Meng', 'Lingxiao Du', 'Zongkai Liu', 'Zhixiang Zhou', 'Quanfeng Lu', 'Daocheng Fu', 'Botian Shi', 'Wenhai Wang', 'Junjun He', 'Kaipeng Zhang', 'Ping Luo', 'Yu Qiao', 'Qiaosheng Zhang', 'Wenqi Shao']
- **Abstrat**: We present MM-Eureka, a multimodal reasoning model that successfully extends large-scale rule-based reinforcement learning (RL) to multimodal reasoning. While rule-based RL has shown remarkable success in improving LLMs' reasoning abilities in text domains, its application to multimodal settings has remained challenging. Our work reproduces key characteristics of text-based RL systems like DeepSeek-R1 in the multimodal space, including steady increases in accuracy reward and response length, and the emergence of reflection behaviors. We demonstrate that both instruction-tuned and pre-trained models can develop strong multimodal reasoning capabilities through rule-based RL without supervised fine-tuning, showing superior data efficiency compared to alternative approaches. We open-source our complete pipeline to foster further research in this area. We release all our codes, models, data, etc. at https://github.com/ModalMinds/MM-EUREKA





## Artificial Utopia: Simulation and Intelligent Agents for a Democratised Future
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07364v1
- **Authors**: ['Yannick Oswald']
- **Abstrat**: Prevailing top-down systems in politics and economics struggle to keep pace with the pressing challenges of the 21st century, such as climate change, social inequality and conflict. Bottom-up democratisation and participatory approaches in politics and economics are increasingly seen as promising alternatives to confront and overcome these issues, often with utopian overtones, as proponents believe they may dramatically reshape political, social and ecological futures for the better and in contrast to contemporary authoritarian tendencies across various countries. Institutional specifics and the associated collective human behavior or culture remains little understood and debated, however. In this article, I propose a novel research agenda focusing on utopian democratisation efforts with formal and computational methods as well as with artificial intelligence - I call this agenda Artificial Utopia. Artificial Utopias provide safe testing grounds for new political ideas and economic policies in-silico with reduced risk of negative consequences as compared to testing ideas in real-world contexts. An increasing number of advanced simulation and intelligence methods, that aim at representing human cognition and collective decision-making in more realistic ways, could benefit this process. This includes agent-based modelling, reinforcement learning, large language models and more. I clarify what some of these simulation approaches can contribute to the study of Artificial Utopias with the help of two institutional examples: the citizen assembly and the democratic firm.





## DaD: Distilled Reinforcement Learning for Diverse Keypoint Detection
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07347v1
- **Authors**: ['Johan Edstedt', 'Georg Bökman', 'Mårten Wadenbäck', 'Michael Felsberg']
- **Abstrat**: Keypoints are what enable Structure-from-Motion (SfM) systems to scale to thousands of images. However, designing a keypoint detection objective is a non-trivial task, as SfM is non-differentiable. Typically, an auxiliary objective involving a descriptor is optimized. This however induces a dependency on the descriptor, which is undesirable. In this paper we propose a fully self-supervised and descriptor-free objective for keypoint detection, through reinforcement learning. To ensure training does not degenerate, we leverage a balanced top-K sampling strategy. While this already produces competitive models, we find that two qualitatively different types of detectors emerge, which are only able to detect light and dark keypoints respectively. To remedy this, we train a third detector, DaD, that optimizes the Kullback-Leibler divergence of the pointwise maximum of both light and dark detectors. Our approach significantly improve upon SotA across a range of benchmarks. Code and model weights are publicly available at https:github.com/parskatt/dad





## Research and Design on Intelligent Recognition of Unordered Targets for Robots Based on Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07340v1
- **Authors**: ['Yiting Mao', 'Dajun Tao', 'Shengyuan Zhang', 'Tian Qi', 'Keqin Li']
- **Abstrat**: In the field of robot target recognition research driven by artificial intelligence (AI), factors such as the disordered distribution of targets, the complexity of the environment, the massive scale of data, and noise interference have significantly restricted the improvement of target recognition accuracy. Against the backdrop of the continuous iteration and upgrading of current AI technologies, to meet the demand for accurate recognition of disordered targets by intelligent robots in complex and changeable scenarios, this study innovatively proposes an AI - based intelligent robot disordered target recognition method using reinforcement learning. This method processes the collected target images with the bilateral filtering algorithm, decomposing them into low - illumination images and reflection images. Subsequently, it adopts differentiated AI strategies, compressing the illumination images and enhancing the reflection images respectively, and then fuses the two parts of images to generate a new image. On this basis, this study deeply integrates deep learning, a core AI technology, with the reinforcement learning algorithm. The enhanced target images are input into a deep reinforcement learning model for training, ultimately enabling the AI - based intelligent robot to efficiently recognize disordered targets. Experimental results show that the proposed method can not only significantly improve the quality of target images but also enable the AI - based intelligent robot to complete the recognition task of disordered targets with higher efficiency and accuracy, demonstrating extremely high application value and broad development prospects in the field of AI robots.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
## PER-DPP Sampling Framework and Its Application in Path Planning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07411v1
- **Authors**: ['Junzhe Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Autonomous navigation in intelligent mobile systems represents a core research focus within artificial intelligence-driven robotics. Contemporary path planning approaches face constraints in dynamic environmental responsiveness and multi-objective task scalability, limiting their capacity to address growing intelligent operation requirements. Decision-centric reinforcement learning frameworks, capitalizing on their unique strengths in adaptive environmental interaction and self-optimization, have gained prominence in advanced control system research. This investigation introduces methodological improvements to address sample homogeneity challenges in reinforcement learning experience replay mechanisms. By incorporating determinant point processes (DPP) for diversity assessment, we develop a dual-criteria sampling framework with adaptive selection protocols. This approach resolves representation bias in conventional prioritized experience replay (PER) systems while preserving algorithmic interoperability, offering improved decision optimization for dynamic operational scenarios. Key contributions comprise: Develop a hybrid sampling paradigm (PER-DPP) combining priority sequencing with diversity maximization.Based on this,create an integrated optimization scheme (PER-DPP-Elastic DQN) merging diversity-aware sampling with adaptive step-size regulation. Comparative simulations in 2D navigation scenarios demonstrate that the elastic step-size component temporarily delays initial convergence speed but synergistically enhances final-stage optimization with PER-DPP integration. The synthesized method generates navigation paths with optimized length efficiency and directional stability.





# path planning
## Force Aware Branch Manipulation To Assist Agricultural Tasks
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07497v1
- **Authors**: ['Madhav Rijal', 'Rashik Shrestha', 'Trevor Smith', 'Yu Gu']
- **Abstrat**: This study presents a methodology to safely manipulate branches to aid various agricultural tasks. Humans in a real agricultural environment often manipulate branches to perform agricultural tasks effectively, but current agricultural robots lack this capability. This proposed strategy to manipulate branches can aid in different precision agriculture tasks, such as fruit picking in dense foliage, pollinating flowers under occlusion, and moving overhanging vines and branches for navigation. The proposed method modifies RRT* to plan a path that satisfies the branch geometric constraints and obeys branch deformable characteristics. Re-planning is done to obtain a path that helps the robot exert force within a desired range so that branches are not damaged during manipulation. Experimentally, this method achieved a success rate of 78\% across 50 trials, successfully moving a branch from different starting points to a target region.





## PER-DPP Sampling Framework and Its Application in Path Planning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07411v1
- **Authors**: ['Junzhe Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Autonomous navigation in intelligent mobile systems represents a core research focus within artificial intelligence-driven robotics. Contemporary path planning approaches face constraints in dynamic environmental responsiveness and multi-objective task scalability, limiting their capacity to address growing intelligent operation requirements. Decision-centric reinforcement learning frameworks, capitalizing on their unique strengths in adaptive environmental interaction and self-optimization, have gained prominence in advanced control system research. This investigation introduces methodological improvements to address sample homogeneity challenges in reinforcement learning experience replay mechanisms. By incorporating determinant point processes (DPP) for diversity assessment, we develop a dual-criteria sampling framework with adaptive selection protocols. This approach resolves representation bias in conventional prioritized experience replay (PER) systems while preserving algorithmic interoperability, offering improved decision optimization for dynamic operational scenarios. Key contributions comprise: Develop a hybrid sampling paradigm (PER-DPP) combining priority sequencing with diversity maximization.Based on this,create an integrated optimization scheme (PER-DPP-Elastic DQN) merging diversity-aware sampling with adaptive step-size regulation. Comparative simulations in 2D navigation scenarios demonstrate that the elastic step-size component temporarily delays initial convergence speed but synergistically enhances final-stage optimization with PER-DPP integration. The synthesized method generates navigation paths with optimized length efficiency and directional stability.





## Dynamic Path Navigation for Motion Agents with LLM Reasoning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07323v1
- **Authors**: ['Yubo Zhao', 'Qi Wu', 'Yifan Wang', 'Yu-Wing Tai', 'Chi-Keung Tang']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated strong generalizable reasoning and planning capabilities. However, their efficacies in spatial path planning and obstacle-free trajectory generation remain underexplored. Leveraging LLMs for navigation holds significant potential, given LLMs' ability to handle unseen scenarios, support user-agent interactions, and provide global control across complex systems, making them well-suited for agentic planning and humanoid motion generation. As one of the first studies in this domain, we explore the zero-shot navigation and path generation capabilities of LLMs by constructing a dataset and proposing an evaluation protocol. Specifically, we represent paths using anchor points connected by straight lines, enabling movement in various directions. This approach offers greater flexibility and practicality compared to previous methods while remaining simple and intuitive for LLMs. We demonstrate that, when tasks are well-structured in this manner, modern LLMs exhibit substantial planning proficiency in avoiding obstacles while autonomously refining navigation with the generated motion to reach the target. Further, this spatial reasoning ability of a single LLM motion agent interacting in a static environment can be seamlessly generalized in multi-motion agents coordination in dynamic environments. Unlike traditional approaches that rely on single-step planning or local policies, our training-free LLM-based method enables global, dynamic, closed-loop planning, and autonomously resolving collision issues.





## Discrete Gaussian Process Representations for Optimising UAV-based Precision Weed Mapping
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07210v1
- **Authors**: ['Jacob Swindell', 'Madeleine Darbyshire', 'Marija Popovic', 'Riccardo Polvara']
- **Abstrat**: Accurate agricultural weed mapping using UAVs is crucial for precision farming applications. Traditional methods rely on orthomosaic stitching from rigid flight paths, which is computationally intensive and time-consuming. Gaussian Process (GP)-based mapping offers continuous modelling of the underlying variable (i.e. weed distribution) but requires discretisation for practical tasks like path planning or visualisation. Current implementations often default to quadtrees or gridmaps without systematically evaluating alternatives. This study compares five discretisation methods: quadtrees, wedgelets, top-down binary space partition (BSP) trees using least square error (LSE), bottom-up BSP trees using graph merging, and variable-resolution hexagonal grids. Evaluations on real-world weed distributions measure visual similarity, mean squared error (MSE), and computational efficiency. Results show quadtrees perform best overall, but alternatives excel in specific scenarios: hexagons or BSP LSE suit fields with large, dominant weed patches, while quadtrees are optimal for dispersed small-scale distributions. These findings highlight the need to tailor discretisation approaches to weed distribution patterns (patch size, density, coverage) rather than relying on default methods. By choosing representations based on the underlying distribution, we can improve mapping accuracy and efficiency for precision agriculture applications.





## Learning Temporal Distances: Contrastive Successor Features Can Provide a Metric Structure for Decision-Making
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.17098v2
- **Authors**: ['Vivek Myers', 'Chongyi Zheng', 'Anca Dragan', 'Sergey Levine', 'Benjamin Eysenbach']
- **Abstrat**: Temporal distances lie at the heart of many algorithms for planning, control, and reinforcement learning that involve reaching goals, allowing one to estimate the transit time between two states. However, prior attempts to define such temporal distances in stochastic settings have been stymied by an important limitation: these prior approaches do not satisfy the triangle inequality. This is not merely a definitional concern, but translates to an inability to generalize and find shortest paths. In this paper, we build on prior work in contrastive learning and quasimetrics to show how successor features learned by contrastive learning (after a change of variables) form a temporal distance that does satisfy the triangle inequality, even in stochastic settings. Importantly, this temporal distance is computationally efficient to estimate, even in high-dimensional and stochastic settings. Experiments in controlled settings and benchmark suites demonstrate that an RL algorithm based on these new temporal distances exhibits combinatorial generalization (i.e., "stitching") and can sometimes learn more quickly than prior methods, including those based on quasimetrics.




