# reinforcement learning
## Intelligent Router for LLM Workloads: Improving Performance Through Workload-Aware Load Balancing
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.13510v2
- **Authors**: ['Kunal Jain', 'Anjaly Parayil', 'Ankur Mallick', 'Esha Choukse', 'Xiaoting Qin', 'Jue Zhang', 'Íñigo Goiri', 'Rujia Wang', 'Chetan Bansal', 'Victor Rühle', 'Anoop Kulkarni', 'Steve Kofsky', 'Saravan Rajmohan']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Model (LLM) workloads have distinct prefill and decode phases with different compute and memory requirements which should ideally be accounted for when scheduling input queries across different LLM instances in a cluster. However existing scheduling algorithms treat LLM workloads as monolithic jobs without considering the distinct characteristics of the two phases in each workload. This leads to sub-optimal scheduling and increased response latency. In this work, we start by characterizing factors affecting the response latency during LLM inference serving. We establish that better load balancing of inference requests across the available LLM instances can improve the end-to-end latency to a larger extent than merely focusing on optimizing the instance-level scheduler. Motivated by our findings, we propose a heuristic-guided reinforcement learning-based intelligent router for data-driven and workload-aware scheduling. Our router schedules queries across LLM instances by leveraging a trainable response-length predictor, and a novel formulation for estimating the impact of mixing different workloads and achieves over 11% lower end-to-end latency than existing approaches on a mix of public datasets and 7.8% lower end-to-end latency on real workload data with diverse input and output trends from Cloud Provider X. Additionally, the proposed framework can also serve as a standard for benchmarking different LLM inference schedulers since it provides the best latency for a given model, hardware, and instance-level scheduler combination.





## A review on reinforcement learning methods for mobility on demand systems
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.02569v2
- **Authors**: ['Tarek Chouaki', 'Sebastian Hörl', 'Jakob Puchinger']
- **Abstrat**: Mobility on Demand (MoD) refers to mobility systems that operate on the basis of immediate travel demand. Typically, such a system consists of a fleet of vehicles that can be booked by customers when needed. The operation of these services consists of two main tasks: deciding how vehicles are assigned to requests (vehicle assignment); and deciding where vehicles move (including charging stations) when they are not serving a request (rebalancing). A field of research is emerging around the design of operation strategies for MoD services, and an increasingly popular trend is the use of learning based (most often Reinforcement Learning) approaches. We review, in this work, the literature on algorithms for operation strategies of MoD systems that use approaches based on Reinforcement Learning with a focus on the types of algorithms being used. The novelty of our review stands in three aspects: First, the algorithmic details are discussed and the approaches classified in a unified framework for sequential decision-making. Second, the use cases on which approaches are tested and their features are taken into account. Finally, validation methods that can be found across the literature are discussed. The review aims at advancing the state of the art by identifying similarities and differences between approaches and highlighting current research directions.





## Explainable Reinforcement Learning via Temporal Policy Decomposition
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03902v1
- **Authors**: ['Franco Ruggeri', 'Alessio Russo', 'Rafia Inam', 'Karl Henrik Johansson']
- **Abstrat**: We investigate the explainability of Reinforcement Learning (RL) policies from a temporal perspective, focusing on the sequence of future outcomes associated with individual actions. In RL, value functions compress information about rewards collected across multiple trajectories and over an infinite horizon, allowing a compact form of knowledge representation. However, this compression obscures the temporal details inherent in sequential decision-making, presenting a key challenge for interpretability. We present Temporal Policy Decomposition (TPD), a novel explainability approach that explains individual RL actions in terms of their Expected Future Outcome (EFO). These explanations decompose generalized value functions into a sequence of EFOs, one for each time step up to a prediction horizon of interest, revealing insights into when specific outcomes are expected to occur. We leverage fixed-horizon temporal difference learning to devise an off-policy method for learning EFOs for both optimal and suboptimal actions, enabling contrastive explanations consisting of EFOs for different state-action pairs. Our experiments demonstrate that TPD generates accurate explanations that (i) clarify the policy's future strategy and anticipated trajectory for a given action and (ii) improve understanding of the reward composition, facilitating fine-tuning of the reward function to align with human expectations.





## Neural DNF-MT: A Neuro-symbolic Approach for Learning Interpretable and Editable Policies
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03888v1
- **Authors**: ['Kexin Gu Baugh', 'Luke Dickens', 'Alessandra Russo']
- **Abstrat**: Although deep reinforcement learning has been shown to be effective, the model's black-box nature presents barriers to direct policy interpretation. To address this problem, we propose a neuro-symbolic approach called neural DNF-MT for end-to-end policy learning. The differentiable nature of the neural DNF-MT model enables the use of deep actor-critic algorithms for training. At the same time, its architecture is designed so that trained models can be directly translated into interpretable policies expressed as standard (bivalent or probabilistic) logic programs. Moreover, additional layers can be included to extract abstract features from complex observations, acting as a form of predicate invention. The logic representations are highly interpretable, and we show how the bivalent representations of deterministic policies can be edited and incorporated back into a neural model, facilitating manual intervention and adaptation of learned policies. We evaluate our approach on a range of tasks requiring learning deterministic or stochastic behaviours from various forms of observations. Our empirical results show that our neural DNF-MT model performs at the level of competing black-box methods whilst providing interpretable policies.





## AlphaPO -- Reward shape matters for LLM alignment
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03884v1
- **Authors**: ['Aman Gupta', 'Shao Tang', 'Qingquan Song', 'Sirou Zhu', 'Jiwoo Hong', 'Ankan Saha', 'Viral Gupta', 'Noah Lee', 'Eunki Kim', 'Jason Zhu', 'Natesh Pillai', 'S. Sathiya Keerthi']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF) and its variants have made huge strides toward the effective alignment of large language models (LLMs) to follow instructions and reflect human values. More recently, Direct Alignment Algorithms (DAAs) have emerged in which the reward modeling stage of RLHF is skipped by characterizing the reward directly as a function of the policy being learned. Examples include Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) and Simple Preference Optimization (SimPO). These methods often suffer from likelihood displacement, a phenomenon by which the probabilities of preferred responses are often reduced undesirably.   In this paper, we argue that, for DAAs the reward (function) shape matters. We introduce AlphaPO, a new DAA method that leverages an $\alpha$-parameter to help change the shape of the reward function beyond the standard log reward. AlphaPO helps maintain fine-grained control over likelihood displacement and over-optimization. Compared to SimPO, one of the best performing DAAs, AlphaPO leads to about 7\% to 10\% relative improvement in alignment performance for the instruct versions of Mistral-7B and Llama3-8B. The analysis and results presented highlight the importance of the reward shape, and how one can systematically change it to affect training dynamics, as well as improve alignment performance.





## Highway Graph to Accelerate Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.11727v2
- **Authors**: ['Zidu Yin', 'Zhen Zhang', 'Dong Gong', 'Stefano V. Albrecht', 'Javen Q. Shi']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement Learning (RL) algorithms often struggle with low training efficiency. A common approach to address this challenge is integrating model-based planning algorithms, such as Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) or Value Iteration (VI), into the environmental model. However, VI requires iterating over a large tensor which updates the value of the preceding state based on the succeeding state through value propagation, resulting in computationally intensive operations. To enhance the RL training efficiency, we propose improving the efficiency of the value learning process. In deterministic environments with discrete state and action spaces, we observe that on the sampled empirical state-transition graph, a non-branching sequence of transitions-termed a highway-can take the agent to another state without deviation through intermediate states. On these non-branching highways, the value-updating process can be streamlined into a single-step operation, eliminating the need for step-by-step updates. Building on this observation, we introduce the highway graph to model state transitions. The highway graph compresses the transition model into a compact representation, where edges can encapsulate multiple state transitions, enabling value propagation across multiple time steps in a single iteration. By integrating the highway graph into RL, the training process is significantly accelerated, particularly in the early stages of training. Experiments across four categories of environments demonstrate that our method learns significantly faster than established and state-of-the-art RL algorithms (often by a factor of 10 to 150) while maintaining equal or superior expected returns. Furthermore, a deep neural network-based agent trained using the highway graph exhibits improved generalization capabilities and reduced storage costs. Code is publicly available at https://github.com/coodest/highwayRL.





## Online Reinforcement Learning-Based Dynamic Adaptive Evaluation Function for Real-Time Strategy Tasks
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03824v1
- **Authors**: ['Weilong Yang', 'Jie Zhang', 'Xunyun Liu', 'Yanqing Ye']
- **Abstrat**: Effective evaluation of real-time strategy tasks requires adaptive mechanisms to cope with dynamic and unpredictable environments. This study proposes a method to improve evaluation functions for real-time responsiveness to battle-field situation changes, utilizing an online reinforcement learning-based dynam-ic weight adjustment mechanism within the real-time strategy game. Building on traditional static evaluation functions, the method employs gradient descent in online reinforcement learning to update weights dynamically, incorporating weight decay techniques to ensure stability. Additionally, the AdamW optimizer is integrated to adjust the learning rate and decay rate of online reinforcement learning in real time, further reducing the dependency on manual parameter tun-ing. Round-robin competition experiments demonstrate that this method signifi-cantly enhances the application effectiveness of the Lanchester combat model evaluation function, Simple evaluation function, and Simple Sqrt evaluation function in planning algorithms including IDABCD, IDRTMinimax, and Port-folio AI. The method achieves a notable improvement in scores, with the en-hancement becoming more pronounced as the map size increases. Furthermore, the increase in evaluation function computation time induced by this method is kept below 6% for all evaluation functions and planning algorithms. The pro-posed dynamic adaptive evaluation function demonstrates a promising approach for real-time strategy task evaluation.





## Reinforcement Learning for Jump-Diffusions, with Financial Applications
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.16449v3
- **Authors**: ['Xuefeng Gao', 'Lingfei Li', 'Xun Yu Zhou']
- **Abstrat**: We study continuous-time reinforcement learning (RL) for stochastic control in which system dynamics are governed by jump-diffusion processes. We formulate an entropy-regularized exploratory control problem with stochastic policies to capture the exploration--exploitation balance essential for RL. Unlike the pure diffusion case initially studied by Wang et al. (2020), the derivation of the exploratory dynamics under jump-diffusions calls for a careful formulation of the jump part. Through a theoretical analysis, we find that one can simply use the same policy evaluation and $q$-learning algorithms in Jia and Zhou (2022a, 2023), originally developed for controlled diffusions, without needing to check a priori whether the underlying data come from a pure diffusion or a jump-diffusion. However, we show that the presence of jumps ought to affect parameterizations of actors and critics in general. We investigate as an application the mean--variance portfolio selection problem with stock price modelled as a jump-diffusion, and show that both RL algorithms and parameterizations are invariant with respect to jumps. Finally, we present a detailed study on applying the general theory to option hedging.





## In Search of Trees: Decision-Tree Policy Synthesis for Black-Box Systems via Search
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.03260v2
- **Authors**: ['Emir Demirović', 'Christian Schilling', 'Anna Lukina']
- **Abstrat**: Decision trees, owing to their interpretability, are attractive as control policies for (dynamical) systems. Unfortunately, constructing, or synthesising, such policies is a challenging task. Previous approaches do so by imitating a neural-network policy, approximating a tabular policy obtained via formal synthesis, employing reinforcement learning, or modelling the problem as a mixed-integer linear program. However, these works may require access to a hard-to-obtain accurate policy or a formal model of the environment (within reach of formal synthesis), and may not provide guarantees on the quality or size of the final tree policy. In contrast, we present an approach to synthesise optimal decision-tree policies given a deterministic black-box environment and specification, a discretisation of the tree predicates, and an initial set of states, where optimality is defined with respect to the number of steps to achieve the goal. Our approach is a specialised search algorithm which systematically explores the (exponentially large) space of decision trees under the given discretisation. The key component is a novel trace-based pruning mechanism that significantly reduces the search space. Our approach represents a conceptually novel way of synthesising small decision-tree policies with optimality guarantees even for black-box environments with black-box specifications.





## Run-and-tumble chemotaxis using reinforcement learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03687v1
- **Authors**: ['Ramesh Pramanik', 'Shradha Mishra', 'Sakuntala Chatterjee']
- **Abstrat**: Bacterial cells use run-and-tumble motion to climb up attractant concentration gradient in their environment. By extending the uphill runs and shortening the downhill runs the cells migrate towards the higher attractant zones. Motivated by this, we formulate a reinforcement learning (RL) algorithm where an agent moves in one dimension in the presence of an attractant gradient. The agent can perform two actions: either persistent motion in the same direction or reversal of direction. We assign costs for these actions based on the recent history of the agent's trajectory. We ask the question: which RL strategy works best in different types of attractant environment. We quantify efficiency of the RL strategy by the ability of the agent (a) to localize in the favorable zones after large times, and (b) to learn about its complete environment. Depending on the attractant profile and the initial condition, we find an optimum balance is needed between exploration and exploitation to ensure the most efficient performance.





## IEEE 802.11bn Multi-AP Coordinated Spatial Reuse with Hierarchical Multi-Armed Bandits
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03680v1
- **Authors**: ['Maksymilian Wojnar', 'Wojciech Ciezobka', 'Katarzyna Kosek-Szott', 'Krzysztof Rusek', 'Szymon Szott', 'David Nunez', 'Boris Bellalta']
- **Abstrat**: Coordination among multiple access points (APs) is integral to IEEE 802.11bn (Wi-Fi 8) for managing contention in dense networks. This letter explores the benefits of Coordinated Spatial Reuse (C-SR) and proposes the use of reinforcement learning to optimize C-SR group selection. We develop a hierarchical multi-armed bandit (MAB) framework that efficiently selects APs for simultaneous transmissions across various network topologies, demonstrating reinforcement learning's promise in Wi-Fi settings. Among several MAB algorithms studied, we identify the upper confidence bound (UCB) as particularly effective, offering rapid convergence, adaptability to changes, and sustained performance.





## SALE-Based Offline Reinforcement Learning with Ensemble Q-Networks
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03676v1
- **Authors**: ['Zheng Chun']
- **Abstrat**: In this work, we build upon the offline reinforcement learning algorithm TD7, which incorporates State-Action Learned Embeddings (SALE) and LAP, and propose a model-free actor-critic algorithm that integrates ensemble Q-networks and a gradient diversity penalty from EDAC. The ensemble Q-networks effectively address the challenge of out-of-distribution actions by introducing penalties that guide the actor network to focus on in-distribution actions. Meanwhile, the gradient diversity penalty encourages diverse Q-value gradients, further suppressing overestimation for out-of-distribution actions. Additionally, our method retains an adjustable behavior cloning (BC) term that directs the actor network toward dataset actions during early training stages, while gradually reducing its influence as the precision of the Q-ensemble improves. These enhancements work synergistically to improve training stability and accuracy. Experimental results on the D4RL MuJoCo benchmarks demonstrate that our algorithm achieves superior convergence speed, stability, and performance compared to existing methods.





## Reinforcement Learning for an Efficient and Effective Malware Investigation during Cyber Incident Response
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.01999v2
- **Authors**: ['Dipo Dunsin', 'Mohamed Chahine Ghanem', 'Karim Ouazzane', 'Vassil Vassilev']
- **Abstrat**: This research focused on enhancing post-incident malware forensic investigation using reinforcement learning RL. We proposed an advanced MDP post incident malware forensics investigation model and framework to expedite post incident forensics. We then implement our RL Malware Investigation Model based on structured MDP within the proposed framework. To identify malware artefacts, the RL agent acquires and examines forensics evidence files, iteratively improving its capabilities using Q Table and temporal difference learning. The Q learning algorithm significantly improved the agent ability to identify malware. An epsilon greedy exploration strategy and Q learning updates enabled efficient learning and decision making. Our experimental testing revealed that optimal learning rates depend on the MDP environment complexity, with simpler environments benefiting from higher rates for quicker convergence and complex ones requiring lower rates for stability. Our model performance in identifying and classifying malware reduced malware analysis time compared to human experts, demonstrating robustness and adaptability. The study highlighted the significance of hyper parameter tuning and suggested adaptive strategies for complex environments. Our RL based approach produced promising results and is validated as an alternative to traditional methods notably by offering continuous learning and adaptation to new and evolving malware threats which ultimately enhance the post incident forensics investigations.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning