# reinforcement learning
## Trajectory Balance with Asynchrony: Decoupling Exploration and Learning for Fast, Scalable LLM Post-Training
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.18929v1
- **Authors**: ['Brian R. Bartoldson', 'Siddarth Venkatraman', 'James Diffenderfer', 'Moksh Jain', 'Tal Ben-Nun', 'Seanie Lee', 'Minsu Kim', 'Johan Obando-Ceron', 'Yoshua Bengio', 'Bhavya Kailkhura']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning (RL) is a critical component of large language model (LLM) post-training. However, existing on-policy algorithms used for post-training are inherently incompatible with the use of experience replay buffers, which can be populated scalably by distributed off-policy actors to enhance exploration as compute increases. We propose efficiently obtaining this benefit of replay buffers via Trajectory Balance with Asynchrony (TBA), a massively scalable LLM RL system. In contrast to existing approaches, TBA uses a larger fraction of compute on search, constantly generating off-policy data for a central replay buffer. A training node simultaneously samples data from this buffer based on reward or recency to update the policy using Trajectory Balance (TB), a diversity-seeking RL objective introduced for GFlowNets. TBA offers three key advantages: (1) decoupled training and search, speeding up training wall-clock time by 4x or more; (2) improved diversity through large-scale off-policy sampling; and (3) scalable search for sparse reward settings. On mathematical reasoning, preference-tuning, and automated red-teaming (diverse and representative post-training tasks), TBA produces speed and performance improvements over strong baselines.





## SimpleRL-Zoo: Investigating and Taming Zero Reinforcement Learning for Open Base Models in the Wild
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.18892v1
- **Authors**: ['Weihao Zeng', 'Yuzhen Huang', 'Qian Liu', 'Wei Liu', 'Keqing He', 'Zejun Ma', 'Junxian He']
- **Abstrat**: DeepSeek-R1 has shown that long chain-of-thought (CoT) reasoning can naturally emerge through a simple reinforcement learning (RL) framework with rule-based rewards, where the training may directly start from the base models-a paradigm referred to as zero RL training. Most recent efforts to reproduce zero RL training have primarily focused on the Qwen2.5 model series, which may not be representative as we find the base models already exhibit strong instruction-following and self-reflection abilities. In this work, we investigate zero RL training across 10 diverse base models, spanning different families and sizes including LLama3-8B, Mistral-7B/24B, DeepSeek-Math-7B, Qwen2.5-math-7B, and all Qwen2.5 models from 0.5B to 32B. Leveraging several key design strategies-such as adjusting format reward and controlling query difficulty-we achieve substantial improvements in both reasoning accuracy and response length across most settings. However, by carefully monitoring the training dynamics, we observe that different base models exhibit distinct patterns during training. For instance, the increased response length does not always correlate with the emergence of certain cognitive behaviors such as verification (i.e., the "aha moment"). Notably, we observe the "aha moment" for the first time in small models not from the Qwen family. We share the key designs that enable successful zero RL training, along with our findings and practices. To facilitate further research, we open-source the code, models, and analysis tools.





## Optimistic Q-learning for average reward and episodic reinforcement learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.13743v2
- **Authors**: ['Priyank Agrawal', 'Shipra Agrawal']
- **Abstrat**: We present an optimistic Q-learning algorithm for regret minimization in average reward reinforcement learning under an additional assumption on the underlying MDP that for all policies, the time to visit some frequent state $s_0$ is finite and upper bounded by $H$, either in expectation or with constant probability. Our setting strictly generalizes the episodic setting and is significantly less restrictive than the assumption of bounded hitting time \textit{for all states} made by most previous literature on model-free algorithms in average reward settings. We demonstrate a regret bound of $\tilde{O}(H^5 S\sqrt{AT})$, where $S$ and $A$ are the numbers of states and actions, and $T$ is the horizon. A key technical novelty of our work is the introduction of an $\overline{L}$ operator defined as $\overline{L} v = \frac{1}{H} \sum_{h=1}^H L^h v$ where $L$ denotes the Bellman operator. Under the given assumption, we show that the $\overline{L}$ operator has a strict contraction (in span) even in the average-reward setting where the discount factor is $1$. Our algorithm design uses ideas from episodic Q-learning to estimate and apply this operator iteratively. Thus, we provide a unified view of regret minimization in episodic and non-episodic settings, which may be of independent interest.





## Learning Multi-Robot Coordination through Locality-Based Factorized Multi-Agent Actor-Critic Algorithm
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.18816v1
- **Authors**: ['Chak Lam Shek', 'Amrit Singh Bedi', 'Anjon Basak', 'Ellen Novoseller', 'Nick Waytowich', 'Priya Narayanan', 'Dinesh Manocha', 'Pratap Tokekar']
- **Abstrat**: In this work, we present a novel cooperative multi-agent reinforcement learning method called \textbf{Loc}ality based \textbf{Fac}torized \textbf{M}ulti-Agent \textbf{A}ctor-\textbf{C}ritic (Loc-FACMAC). Existing state-of-the-art algorithms, such as FACMAC, rely on global reward information, which may not accurately reflect the quality of individual robots' actions in decentralized systems. We integrate the concept of locality into critic learning, where strongly related robots form partitions during training. Robots within the same partition have a greater impact on each other, leading to more precise policy evaluation. Additionally, we construct a dependency graph to capture the relationships between robots, facilitating the partitioning process. This approach mitigates the curse of dimensionality and prevents robots from using irrelevant information. Our method improves existing algorithms by focusing on local rewards and leveraging partition-based learning to enhance training efficiency and performance. We evaluate the performance of Loc-FACMAC in three environments: Hallway, Multi-cartpole, and Bounded-Cooperative-Navigation. We explore the impact of partition sizes on the performance and compare the result with baseline MARL algorithms such as LOMAQ, FACMAC, and QMIX. The experiments reveal that, if the locality structure is defined properly, Loc-FACMAC outperforms these baseline algorithms up to 108\%, indicating that exploiting the locality structure in the actor-critic framework improves the MARL performance.





## Sample-Efficient Reinforcement Learning of Koopman eNMPC
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.18787v1
- **Authors**: ['Daniel Mayfrank', 'Mehmet Velioglu', 'Alexander Mitsos', 'Manuel Dahmen']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning (RL) can be used to tune data-driven (economic) nonlinear model predictive controllers ((e)NMPCs) for optimal performance in a specific control task by optimizing the dynamic model or parameters in the policy's objective function or constraints, such as state bounds. However, the sample efficiency of RL is crucial, and to improve it, we combine a model-based RL algorithm with our published method that turns Koopman (e)NMPCs into automatically differentiable policies. We apply our approach to an eNMPC case study of a continuous stirred-tank reactor (CSTR) model from the literature. The approach outperforms benchmark methods, i.e., data-driven eNMPCs using models based on system identification without further RL tuning of the resulting policy, and neural network controllers trained with model-based RL, by achieving superior control performance and higher sample efficiency. Furthermore, utilizing partial prior knowledge about the system dynamics via physics-informed learning further increases sample efficiency.





## Simulation-Driven Balancing of Competitive Game Levels with Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.18748v1
- **Authors**: ['Florian Rupp', 'Manuel Eberhardinger', 'Kai Eckert']
- **Abstrat**: The balancing process for game levels in competitive two-player contexts involves a lot of manual work and testing, particularly for non-symmetrical game levels. In this work, we frame game balancing as a procedural content generation task and propose an architecture for automatically balancing of tile-based levels within the PCGRL framework (procedural content generation via reinforcement learning). Our architecture is divided into three parts: (1) a level generator, (2) a balancing agent, and (3) a reward modeling simulation. Through repeated simulations, the balancing agent receives rewards for adjusting the level towards a given balancing objective, such as equal win rates for all players. To this end, we propose new swap-based representations to improve the robustness of playability, thereby enabling agents to balance game levels more effectively and quickly compared to traditional PCGRL. By analyzing the agent's swapping behavior, we can infer which tile types have the most impact on the balance. We validate our approach in the Neural MMO (NMMO) environment in a competitive two-player scenario. In this extended conference paper, we present improved results, explore the applicability of the method to various forms of balancing beyond equal balancing, compare the performance to another search-based approach, and discuss the application of existing fairness metrics to game balancing.





## Physics-Informed Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning for Distributed Multi-Robot Problems
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2401.00212v3
- **Authors**: ['Eduardo Sebastian', 'Thai Duong', 'Nikolay Atanasov', 'Eduardo Montijano', 'Carlos Sagues']
- **Abstrat**: The networked nature of multi-robot systems presents challenges in the context of multi-agent reinforcement learning. Centralized control policies do not scale with increasing numbers of robots, whereas independent control policies do not exploit the information provided by other robots, exhibiting poor performance in cooperative-competitive tasks. In this work we propose a physics-informed reinforcement learning approach able to learn distributed multi-robot control policies that are both scalable and make use of all the available information to each robot. Our approach has three key characteristics. First, it imposes a port-Hamiltonian structure on the policy representation, respecting energy conservation properties of physical robot systems and the networked nature of robot team interactions. Second, it uses self-attention to ensure a sparse policy representation able to handle time-varying information at each robot from the interaction graph. Third, we present a soft actor-critic reinforcement learning algorithm parameterized by our self-attention port-Hamiltonian control policy, which accounts for the correlation among robots during training while overcoming the need of value function factorization. Extensive simulations in different multi-robot scenarios demonstrate the success of the proposed approach, surpassing previous multi-robot reinforcement learning solutions in scalability, while achieving similar or superior performance (with averaged cumulative reward up to x2 greater than the state-of-the-art with robot teams x6 larger than the number of robots at training time). We also validate our approach on multiple real robots in the Georgia Tech Robotarium under imperfect communication, demonstrating zero-shot sim-to-real transfer and scalability across number of robots.





## CarPlanner: Consistent Auto-regressive Trajectory Planning for Large-scale Reinforcement Learning in Autonomous Driving
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.19908v3
- **Authors**: ['Dongkun Zhang', 'Jiaming Liang', 'Ke Guo', 'Sha Lu', 'Qi Wang', 'Rong Xiong', 'Zhenwei Miao', 'Yue Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Trajectory planning is vital for autonomous driving, ensuring safe and efficient navigation in complex environments. While recent learning-based methods, particularly reinforcement learning (RL), have shown promise in specific scenarios, RL planners struggle with training inefficiencies and managing large-scale, real-world driving scenarios. In this paper, we introduce \textbf{CarPlanner}, a \textbf{C}onsistent \textbf{a}uto-\textbf{r}egressive \textbf{Planner} that uses RL to generate multi-modal trajectories. The auto-regressive structure enables efficient large-scale RL training, while the incorporation of consistency ensures stable policy learning by maintaining coherent temporal consistency across time steps. Moreover, CarPlanner employs a generation-selection framework with an expert-guided reward function and an invariant-view module, simplifying RL training and enhancing policy performance. Extensive analysis demonstrates that our proposed RL framework effectively addresses the challenges of training efficiency and performance enhancement, positioning CarPlanner as a promising solution for trajectory planning in autonomous driving. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to demonstrate that the RL-based planner can surpass both IL- and rule-based state-of-the-arts (SOTAs) on the challenging large-scale real-world dataset nuPlan. Our proposed CarPlanner surpasses RL-, IL-, and rule-based SOTA approaches within this demanding dataset.





## FF-SRL: High Performance GPU-Based Surgical Simulation For Robot Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.18616v1
- **Authors**: ["Diego Dall'Alba", 'Michał Nasket', 'Sabina Kaminska', 'Przemysław Korzeniowski']
- **Abstrat**: Robotic surgery is a rapidly developing field that can greatly benefit from the automation of surgical tasks. However, training techniques such as Reinforcement Learning (RL) require a high number of task repetitions, which are generally unsafe and impractical to perform on real surgical systems. This stresses the need for simulated surgical environments, which are not only realistic, but also computationally efficient and scalable. We introduce FF-SRL (Fast and Flexible Surgical Reinforcement Learning), a high-performance learning environment for robotic surgery. In FF-SRL both physics simulation and RL policy training reside entirely on a single GPU. This avoids typical bottlenecks associated with data transfer between the CPU and GPU, leading to accelerated learning rates. Our results show that FF-SRL reduces the training time of a complex tissue manipulation task by an order of magnitude, down to a couple of minutes, compared to a common CPU/GPU simulator. Such speed-up may facilitate the experimentation with RL techniques and contribute to the development of new generation of surgical systems. To this end, we make our code publicly available to the community.





## Adventurer: Exploration with BiGAN for Deep Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.18612v1
- **Authors**: ['Yongshuai Liu', 'Xin Liu']
- **Abstrat**: Recent developments in deep reinforcement learning have been very successful in learning complex, previously intractable problems. Sample efficiency and local optimality, however, remain significant challenges. To address these challenges, novelty-driven exploration strategies have emerged and shown promising potential. Unfortunately, no single algorithm outperforms all others in all tasks and most of them struggle with tasks with high-dimensional and complex observations. In this work, we propose Adventurer, a novelty-driven exploration algorithm that is based on Bidirectional Generative Adversarial Networks (BiGAN), where BiGAN is trained to estimate state novelty. Intuitively, a generator that has been trained on the distribution of visited states should only be able to generate a state coming from the distribution of visited states. As a result, novel states using the generator to reconstruct input states from certain latent representations would lead to larger reconstruction errors. We show that BiGAN performs well in estimating state novelty for complex observations. This novelty estimation method can be combined with intrinsic-reward-based exploration. Our empirical results show that Adventurer produces competitive results on a range of popular benchmark tasks, including continuous robotic manipulation tasks (e.g. Mujoco robotics) and high-dimensional image-based tasks (e.g. Atari games).





## Reinforcement Learning in Switching Non-Stationary Markov Decision Processes: Algorithms and Convergence Analysis
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.18607v1
- **Authors**: ['Mohsen Amiri', 'Sindri Magnússon']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning in non-stationary environments is challenging due to abrupt and unpredictable changes in dynamics, often causing traditional algorithms to fail to converge. However, in many real-world cases, non-stationarity has some structure that can be exploited to develop algorithms and facilitate theoretical analysis. We introduce one such structure, Switching Non-Stationary Markov Decision Processes (SNS-MDP), where environments switch over time based on an underlying Markov chain. Under a fixed policy, the value function of an SNS-MDP admits a closed-form solution determined by the Markov chain's statistical properties, and despite the inherent non-stationarity, Temporal Difference (TD) learning methods still converge to the correct value function. Furthermore, policy improvement can be performed, and it is shown that policy iteration converges to the optimal policy. Moreover, since Q-learning converges to the optimal Q-function, it likewise yields the corresponding optimal policy. To illustrate the practical advantages of SNS-MDPs, we present an example in communication networks where channel noise follows a Markovian pattern, demonstrating how this framework can effectively guide decision-making in complex, time-varying contexts.





## The Role of Artificial Intelligence in Enhancing Insulin Recommendations and Therapy Outcomes
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.18592v1
- **Authors**: ['Maria Panagiotou', 'Knut Stroemmen', 'Lorenzo Brigato', 'Bastiaan E. de Galan', 'Stavroula Mougiakakou']
- **Abstrat**: The growing worldwide incidence of diabetes requires more effective approaches for managing blood glucose levels. Insulin delivery systems have advanced significantly, with artificial intelligence (AI) playing a key role in improving their precision and adaptability. AI algorithms, particularly those based on reinforcement learning, allow for personalised insulin dosing by continuously adapting to an individual's responses. Despite these advancements, challenges such as data privacy, algorithm transparency, and accessibility still need to be addressed. Continued progress and validation in AI-driven insulin delivery systems promise to improve therapy outcomes further, offering people more effective and individualised management of their diabetes. This paper presents an overview of current strategies, key challenges, and future directions.





## RLCAD: Reinforcement Learning Training Gym for Revolution Involved CAD Command Sequence Generation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.18549v1
- **Authors**: ['Xiaolong Yin', 'Xingyu Lu', 'Jiahang Shen', 'Jingzhe Ni', 'Hailong Li', 'Ruofeng Tong', 'Min Tang', 'Peng Du']
- **Abstrat**: A CAD command sequence is a typical parametric design paradigm in 3D CAD systems where a model is constructed by overlaying 2D sketches with operations such as extrusion, revolution, and Boolean operations. Although there is growing academic interest in the automatic generation of command sequences, existing methods and datasets only support operations such as 2D sketching, extrusion,and Boolean operations. This limitation makes it challenging to represent more complex geometries. In this paper, we present a reinforcement learning (RL) training environment (gym) built on a CAD geometric engine. Given an input boundary representation (B-Rep) geometry, the policy network in the RL algorithm generates an action. This action, along with previously generated actions, is processed within the gym to produce the corresponding CAD geometry, which is then fed back into the policy network. The rewards, determined by the difference between the generated and target geometries within the gym, are used to update the RL network. Our method supports operations beyond sketches, Boolean, and extrusion, including revolution operations. With this training gym, we achieve state-of-the-art (SOTA) quality in generating command sequences from B-Rep geometries. In addition, our method can significantly improve the efficiency of command sequence generation by a factor of 39X compared with the previous training gym.





## Parental Guidance: Efficient Lifelong Learning through Evolutionary Distillation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.18531v1
- **Authors**: ['Octi Zhang', 'Quanquan Peng', 'Rosario Scalise', 'Bryon Boots']
- **Abstrat**: Developing robotic agents that can perform well in diverse environments while showing a variety of behaviors is a key challenge in AI and robotics. Traditional reinforcement learning (RL) methods often create agents that specialize in narrow tasks, limiting their adaptability and diversity. To overcome this, we propose a preliminary, evolution-inspired framework that includes a reproduction module, similar to natural species reproduction, balancing diversity and specialization. By integrating RL, imitation learning (IL), and a coevolutionary agent-terrain curriculum, our system evolves agents continuously through complex tasks. This approach promotes adaptability, inheritance of useful traits, and continual learning. Agents not only refine inherited skills but also surpass their predecessors. Our initial experiments show that this method improves exploration efficiency and supports open-ended learning, offering a scalable solution where sparse reward coupled with diverse terrain environments induces a multi-task setting.





## Improving robot navigation in crowded environments using intrinsic rewards
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2302.06554v2
- **Authors**: ['Diego Martinez-Baselga', 'Luis Riazuelo', 'Luis Montano']
- **Abstrat**: Autonomous navigation in crowded environments is an open problem with many applications, essential for the coexistence of robots and humans in the smart cities of the future. In recent years, deep reinforcement learning approaches have proven to outperform model-based algorithms. Nevertheless, even though the results provided are promising, the works are not able to take advantage of the capabilities that their models offer. They usually get trapped in local optima in the training process, that prevent them from learning the optimal policy. They are not able to visit and interact with every possible state appropriately, such as with the states near the goal or near the dynamic obstacles. In this work, we propose using intrinsic rewards to balance between exploration and exploitation and explore depending on the uncertainty of the states instead of on the time the agent has been trained, encouraging the agent to get more curious about unknown states. We explain the benefits of the approach and compare it with other exploration algorithms that may be used for crowd navigation. Many simulation experiments are performed modifying several algorithms of the state-of-the-art, showing that the use of intrinsic rewards makes the robot learn faster and reach higher rewards and success rates (fewer collisions) in shorter navigation times, outperforming the state-of-the-art.





## LLM Post-Training: A Deep Dive into Reasoning Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.21321v2
- **Authors**: ['Komal Kumar', 'Tajamul Ashraf', 'Omkar Thawakar', 'Rao Muhammad Anwer', 'Hisham Cholakkal', 'Mubarak Shah', 'Ming-Hsuan Yang', 'Phillip H. S. Torr', 'Fahad Shahbaz Khan', 'Salman Khan']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) have transformed the natural language processing landscape and brought to life diverse applications. Pretraining on vast web-scale data has laid the foundation for these models, yet the research community is now increasingly shifting focus toward post-training techniques to achieve further breakthroughs. While pretraining provides a broad linguistic foundation, post-training methods enable LLMs to refine their knowledge, improve reasoning, enhance factual accuracy, and align more effectively with user intents and ethical considerations. Fine-tuning, reinforcement learning, and test-time scaling have emerged as critical strategies for optimizing LLMs performance, ensuring robustness, and improving adaptability across various real-world tasks. This survey provides a systematic exploration of post-training methodologies, analyzing their role in refining LLMs beyond pretraining, addressing key challenges such as catastrophic forgetting, reward hacking, and inference-time trade-offs. We highlight emerging directions in model alignment, scalable adaptation, and inference-time reasoning, and outline future research directions. We also provide a public repository to continually track developments in this fast-evolving field: https://github.com/mbzuai-oryx/Awesome-LLM-Post-training.





# TD3
## Adaptive UAV-Assisted Hierarchical Federated Learning: Optimizing Energy, Latency, and Resilience for Dynamic Smart IoT
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.06145v2
- **Authors**: ['Xiaohong Yang', 'Minghui Liwang', 'Liqun Fu', 'Yuhan Su', 'Seyyedali Hosseinalipour', 'Xianbin Wang', 'Yiguang Hong']
- **Abstrat**: A key application of HFL lies in smart Internet of Things (IoT) systems, including remote monitoring and battlefield operations, where cellular connectivity is often unavailable. In such scenarios, UAVs can act as mobile aggregators, dynamically providing connectivity to terrestrial IoT devices. Subsequently, this paper investigates an HFL architecture enabled by energy-constrained, dynamically deployed UAVs that are susceptible to communication disruptions. We propose a novel approach to minimize global training costs in such environments by formulating a joint optimization problem that integrates learning configuration, bandwidth allocation, and IoT device-to-UAV association, ensuring timely global aggregation before UAV disconnections and redeployments. The problem explicitly captures the dynamic nature of IoT devices and their intermittent connectivity to UAVs and is shown to be NP-hard. To address its complexity, we decompose the problem into three interrelated subproblems. First, we optimize learning configuration and bandwidth allocation using an augmented Lagrangian function to reduce training costs. Second, we introduce a device fitness score that accounts for data heterogeneity (via Kullback-Leibler divergence), device-to-UAV proximity, and computational resources, leveraging a Twin Delayed Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (TD3)-based algorithm for adaptive device-to-UAV assignment. Third, we develop a low-complexity two-stage greedy strategy for UAV redeployment and global aggregator selection, ensuring efficient model aggregation despite UAV disconnections.





# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Toward a method for LLM-enabled Indoor Navigation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.11702v3
- **Authors**: ['Alberto Coffrini', 'Mohammad Amin Zadenoori', 'Paolo Barsocchi', 'Francesco Furfari', 'Antonino Crivello', 'Alessio Ferrari']
- **Abstrat**: Indoor navigation presents unique challenges due to complex layouts, lack of GPS signals, and accessibility concerns. Existing solutions often struggle with real-time adaptability and user-specific needs. In this work, we explore the potential of a Large Language Model (LLM), i.e., ChatGPT, to generate natural, context-aware navigation instructions from indoor map images. We design and evaluate test cases across different real-world environments, analyzing the effectiveness of LLMs in interpreting spatial layouts, handling user constraints, and planning efficient routes. Our findings demonstrate the potential of LLMs for supporting personalized indoor navigation, with an average of 50.54% correct indications and a maximum of 77.78%. The results do not appear to depend on the complexity of the layout or the complexity of the expected path, but rather on the number of points of interest and the abundance of visual information, which negatively affect the performance.





## Multi-agent coordination for data gathering with periodic requests and deliveries
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.18546v1
- **Authors**: ['Yaroslav Marchukov', 'Luis Montano']
- **Abstrat**: In this demo work we develop a method to plan and coordinate a multi-agent team to gather information on demand. The data is periodically requested by a static Operation Center (OC) from changeable goals locations. The mission of the team is to reach these locations, taking measurements and delivering the data to the OC. Due to the limited communication range as well as signal attenuation because of the obstacles, the agents must travel to the OC, to upload the data. The agents can play two roles: ones as workers gathering data, the others as collectors traveling invariant paths for collecting the data of the workers to re-transmit it to the OC. The refreshing time of the delivered information depends on the number of available agents as well as of the scenario. The proposed algorithm finds out the best balance between the number of collectors-workers and the partition of the scenario into working areas in the planning phase, which provides the minimum refreshing time and will be the one executed by the agents.





## Communication-aware planning for robot teams deployment
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.18545v1
- **Authors**: ['Yaroslav Marchukov', 'Luis Montano']
- **Abstrat**: In the present work we address the problem of deploying a team of robots in a scenario where some locations of interest must be reached. Thus, a planning for a deployment is required, before sending the robots. The obstacles, the limited communication range, and the need of communicating to a base station, constrain the connectivity of the team and the deployment planning. We propose a method consisting of three algorithms: a distributed path planner to obtain communication-aware trajectories; a deployment planner providing dual-use of the robots, visiting primary goals and performing connectivity tasks; and a clustering algorithm to allocate the tasks to robots, and obtain the best goal visit order for the mission.





## Multimodal urban transportation network equilibrium including intermodality and shared mobility services
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.00735v4
- **Authors**: ['Khadidja Kadem', 'Mostafa Ameli', 'Mahdi Zargayouna', 'Latifa Oukhellou']
- **Abstrat**: Shared Mobility Services (SMSs) are reshaping urban transportation systems by providing flexible mobility options. With their ability to decrease the number of cars on the roads, these services can potentially improve the transportation system's performance in terms of travel times and emissions. This emphasizes the importance of analyzing and understanding their impacts on the system and users' choices, especially when integrated into a complex multi-modal system, including public transport (PT). Many studies overlook the synergies between SMSs and PT, leading to inaccurate traffic estimations and planning. This research offers an extensive review of multi-modal transportation system models involving SMSs. We then introduce a traffic assignment analytical model valid in both continuous and integer settings, leading to a Mixed-Integer Bilinear Programming (MIBLP) formulation. This model comprises diverse travel possibilities, including SMSs, and handles intermodality by allowing commuters to combine modes to optimize time and monetary expense. An in-depth examination of commuters' mode and path choices on two test cases and an analysis of the price of anarchy highlights the disparities between user equilibrium and system optimum in such intricate systems.




