# reinforcement learning
## GoT-R1: Unleashing Reasoning Capability of MLLM for Visual Generation with Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.17022v1
- **Authors**: ['Chengqi Duan', 'Rongyao Fang', 'Yuqing Wang', 'Kun Wang', 'Linjiang Huang', 'Xingyu Zeng', 'Hongsheng Li', 'Xihui Liu']
- **Abstrat**: Visual generation models have made remarkable progress in creating realistic images from text prompts, yet struggle with complex prompts that specify multiple objects with precise spatial relationships and attributes. Effective handling of such prompts requires explicit reasoning about the semantic content and spatial layout. We present GoT-R1, a framework that applies reinforcement learning to enhance semantic-spatial reasoning in visual generation. Building upon the Generation Chain-of-Thought approach, GoT-R1 enables models to autonomously discover effective reasoning strategies beyond predefined templates through carefully designed reinforcement learning. To achieve this, we propose a dual-stage multi-dimensional reward framework that leverages MLLMs to evaluate both the reasoning process and final output, enabling effective supervision across the entire generation pipeline. The reward system assesses semantic alignment, spatial accuracy, and visual quality in a unified approach. Experimental results demonstrate significant improvements on T2I-CompBench benchmark, particularly in compositional tasks involving precise spatial relationships and attribute binding. GoT-R1 advances the state-of-the-art in image generation by successfully transferring sophisticated reasoning capabilities to the visual generation domain. To facilitate future research, we make our code and pretrained models publicly available at https://github.com/gogoduan/GoT-R1.





## SophiaVL-R1: Reinforcing MLLMs Reasoning with Thinking Reward
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.17018v1
- **Authors**: ['Kaixuan Fan', 'Kaituo Feng', 'Haoming Lyu', 'Dongzhan Zhou', 'Xiangyu Yue']
- **Abstrat**: Recent advances have shown success in eliciting strong reasoning abilities in multimodal large language models (MLLMs) through rule-based reinforcement learning (RL) with outcome rewards. However, this paradigm typically lacks supervision over the thinking process leading to the final outcome.As a result, the model may learn sub-optimal reasoning strategies, which can hinder its generalization ability. In light of this, we propose SophiaVL-R1, as an attempt to add reward signals for the thinking process in this paradigm. To achieve this, we first train a thinking reward model that evaluates the quality of the entire thinking process. Given that the thinking reward may be unreliable for certain samples due to reward hacking, we propose the Trust-GRPO method, which assigns a trustworthiness weight to the thinking reward during training. This weight is computed based on the thinking reward comparison of responses leading to correct answers versus incorrect answers, helping to mitigate the impact of potentially unreliable thinking rewards. Moreover, we design an annealing training strategy that gradually reduces the thinking reward over time, allowing the model to rely more on the accurate rule-based outcome reward in later training stages. Experiments show that our SophiaVL-R1 surpasses a series of reasoning MLLMs on various benchmarks (e.g., MathVisita, MMMU), demonstrating strong reasoning and generalization capabilities. Notably, our SophiaVL-R1-7B even outperforms LLaVA-OneVision-72B on most benchmarks, despite the latter having 10 times more parameters. All code, models, and datasets are made publicly available at https://github.com/kxfan2002/SophiaVL-R1.





## Delving into RL for Image Generation with CoT: A Study on DPO vs. GRPO
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.17017v1
- **Authors**: ['Chengzhuo Tong', 'Ziyu Guo', 'Renrui Zhang', 'Wenyu Shan', 'Xinyu Wei', 'Zhenghao Xing', 'Hongsheng Li', 'Pheng-Ann Heng']
- **Abstrat**: Recent advancements underscore the significant role of Reinforcement Learning (RL) in enhancing the Chain-of-Thought (CoT) reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs). Two prominent RL algorithms, Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) and Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO), are central to these developments, showcasing different pros and cons. Autoregressive image generation, also interpretable as a sequential CoT reasoning process, presents unique challenges distinct from LLM-based CoT reasoning. These encompass ensuring text-image consistency, improving image aesthetic quality, and designing sophisticated reward models, rather than relying on simpler rule-based rewards. While recent efforts have extended RL to this domain, these explorations typically lack an in-depth analysis of the domain-specific challenges and the characteristics of different RL strategies. To bridge this gap, we provide the first comprehensive investigation of the GRPO and DPO algorithms in autoregressive image generation, evaluating their in-domain performance and out-of-domain generalization, while scrutinizing the impact of different reward models on their respective capabilities. Our findings reveal that GRPO and DPO exhibit distinct advantages, and crucially, that reward models possessing stronger intrinsic generalization capabilities potentially enhance the generalization potential of the applied RL algorithms. Furthermore, we systematically explore three prevalent scaling strategies to enhance both their in-domain and out-of-domain proficiency, deriving unique insights into efficiently scaling performance for each paradigm. We hope our study paves a new path for inspiring future work on developing more effective RL algorithms to achieve robust CoT reasoning in the realm of autoregressive image generation. Code is released at https://github.com/ZiyuGuo99/Image-Generation-CoT





## Interactive Post-Training for Vision-Language-Action Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.17016v1
- **Authors**: ['Shuhan Tan', 'Kairan Dou', 'Yue Zhao', 'Philipp Kr채henb체hl']
- **Abstrat**: We introduce RIPT-VLA, a simple and scalable reinforcement-learning-based interactive post-training paradigm that fine-tunes pretrained Vision-Language-Action (VLA) models using only sparse binary success rewards. Existing VLA training pipelines rely heavily on offline expert demonstration data and supervised imitation, limiting their ability to adapt to new tasks and environments under low-data regimes. RIPT-VLA addresses this by enabling interactive post-training with a stable policy optimization algorithm based on dynamic rollout sampling and leave-one-out advantage estimation.   RIPT-VLA has the following characteristics. First, it applies to various VLA models, resulting in an improvement on the lightweight QueST model by 21.2%, and the 7B OpenVLA-OFT model to an unprecedented 97.5% success rate. Second, it is computationally efficient and data-efficient: with only one demonstration, RIPT-VLA enables an unworkable SFT model (4%) to succeed with a 97% success rate within 15 iterations. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the policy learned by RIPT-VLA generalizes across different tasks and scenarios and is robust to the initial state context. These results highlight RIPT-VLA as a practical and effective paradigm for post-training VLA models through minimal supervision.





## $\text{R}^2\text{ec}$: Towards Large Recommender Models with Reasoning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.16994v1
- **Authors**: ['Runyang You', 'Yongqi Li', 'Xinyu Lin', 'Xin Zhang', 'Wenjie Wang', 'Wenjie Li', 'Liqiang Nie']
- **Abstrat**: Large recommender models have extended LLMs as powerful recommenders via encoding or item generation, and recent breakthroughs in LLM reasoning synchronously motivate the exploration of reasoning in recommendation. Current studies usually position LLMs as external reasoning modules to yield auxiliary thought for augmenting conventional recommendation pipelines. However, such decoupled designs are limited in significant resource cost and suboptimal joint optimization. To address these issues, we propose \name, a unified large recommender model with intrinsic reasoning capabilities. Initially, we reconceptualize the model architecture to facilitate interleaved reasoning and recommendation in the autoregressive process. Subsequently, we propose RecPO, a corresponding reinforcement learning framework that optimizes \name\ both the reasoning and recommendation capabilities simultaneously in a single policy update; RecPO introduces a fused reward scheme that solely leverages recommendation labels to simulate the reasoning capability, eliminating dependency on specialized reasoning annotations. Experiments on three datasets with various baselines verify the effectiveness of \name, showing relative improvements of 68.67\% in Hit@5 and 45.21\% in NDCG@20. Code available at https://github.com/YRYangang/RRec.





## SWE-Dev: Evaluating and Training Autonomous Feature-Driven Software Development
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.16975v1
- **Authors**: ['Yaxin Du', 'Yuzhu Cai', 'Yifan Zhou', 'Cheng Wang', 'Yu Qian', 'Xianghe Pang', 'Qian Liu', 'Yue Hu', 'Siheng Chen']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown strong capability in diverse software engineering tasks, e.g. code completion, bug fixing, and document generation. However, feature-driven development (FDD), a highly prevalent real-world task that involves developing new functionalities for large, existing codebases, remains underexplored. We therefore introduce SWE-Dev, the first large-scale dataset (with 14,000 training and 500 test samples) designed to evaluate and train autonomous coding systems on real-world feature development tasks. To ensure verifiable and diverse training, SWE-Dev uniquely provides all instances with a runnable environment and its developer-authored executable unit tests. This collection not only provides high-quality data for Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT), but also enables Reinforcement Learning (RL) by delivering accurate reward signals from executable unit tests. Our extensive evaluations on SWE-Dev, covering 17 chatbot LLMs, 10 reasoning models, and 10 Multi-Agent Systems (MAS), reveal that FDD is a profoundly challenging frontier for current AI (e.g., Claude-3.7-Sonnet achieves only 22.45\% Pass@3 on the hard test split). Crucially, we demonstrate that SWE-Dev serves as an effective platform for model improvement: fine-tuning on training set enabled a 7B model comparable to GPT-4o on \textit{hard} split, underscoring the value of its high-quality training data. Code is available here \href{https://github.com/justLittleWhite/SWE-Dev}{https://github.com/justLittleWhite/SWE-Dev}.





## Diverse Preference Optimization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.18101v4
- **Authors**: ['Jack Lanchantin', 'Angelica Chen', 'Shehzaad Dhuliawala', 'Ping Yu', 'Jason Weston', 'Sainbayar Sukhbaatar', 'Ilia Kulikov']
- **Abstrat**: Post-training of language models, either through reinforcement learning, preference optimization or supervised finetuning, tends to sharpen the output probability distribution and reduce the diversity of generated responses. This is particularly a problem for creative generative tasks where varied responses are desired. In this work we introduce Diverse Preference Optimization (DivPO), an optimization method which learns to generate much more diverse responses than standard pipelines, while maintaining the quality of the generations. In DivPO, preference pairs are selected by first considering a pool of responses, and a measure of diversity among them, and selecting chosen examples as being more rare but high quality, while rejected examples are more common, but low quality. DivPO results in generating 45.6% more diverse persona attributes, and a 74.6% increase in story diversity, while maintaining similar win rates as standard baselines. On general instruction following, DivPO results in a 46.2% increase in diversity, and a 2.4% winrate improvement compared to DPO.





## TinyV: Reducing False Negatives in Verification Improves RL for LLM Reasoning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.14625v2
- **Authors**: ['Zhangchen Xu', 'Yuetai Li', 'Fengqing Jiang', 'Bhaskar Ramasubramanian', 'Luyao Niu', 'Bill Yuchen Lin', 'Radha Poovendran']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement Learning (RL) has become a powerful tool for enhancing the reasoning abilities of large language models (LLMs) by optimizing their policies with reward signals. Yet, RL's success relies on the reliability of rewards, which are provided by verifiers. In this paper, we expose and analyze a widespread problem--false negatives--where verifiers wrongly reject correct model outputs. Our in-depth study of the Big-Math-RL-Verified dataset reveals that over 38% of model-generated responses suffer from false negatives, where the verifier fails to recognize correct answers. We show, both empirically and theoretically, that these false negatives severely impair RL training by depriving the model of informative gradient signals and slowing convergence. To mitigate this, we propose tinyV, a lightweight LLM-based verifier that augments existing rule-based methods, which dynamically identifies potential false negatives and recovers valid responses to produce more accurate reward estimates. Across multiple math-reasoning benchmarks, integrating TinyV boosts pass rates by up to 10% and accelerates convergence relative to the baseline. Our findings highlight the critical importance of addressing verifier false negatives and offer a practical approach to improve RL-based fine-tuning of LLMs. Our code is available at https://github.com/uw-nsl/TinyV.





## Risk-Averse Reinforcement Learning with Itakura-Saito Loss
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.16925v1
- **Authors**: ['Igor Udovichenko', 'Olivier Croissant', 'Anita Toleutaeva', 'Evgeny Burnaev', 'Alexander Korotin']
- **Abstrat**: Risk-averse reinforcement learning finds application in various high-stakes fields. Unlike classical reinforcement learning, which aims to maximize expected returns, risk-averse agents choose policies that minimize risk, occasionally sacrificing expected value. These preferences can be framed through utility theory. We focus on the specific case of the exponential utility function, where we can derive the Bellman equations and employ various reinforcement learning algorithms with few modifications. However, these methods suffer from numerical instability due to the need for exponent computation throughout the process. To address this, we introduce a numerically stable and mathematically sound loss function based on the Itakura-Saito divergence for learning state-value and action-value functions. We evaluate our proposed loss function against established alternatives, both theoretically and empirically. In the experimental section, we explore multiple financial scenarios, some with known analytical solutions, and show that our loss function outperforms the alternatives.





## General-Reasoner: Advancing LLM Reasoning Across All Domains
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.14652v3
- **Authors**: ['Xueguang Ma', 'Qian Liu', 'Dongfu Jiang', 'Ge Zhang', 'Zejun Ma', 'Wenhu Chen']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning (RL) has recently demonstrated strong potential in enhancing the reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs). Particularly, the "Zero" reinforcement learning introduced by Deepseek-R1-Zero, enables direct RL training of base LLMs without relying on an intermediate supervised fine-tuning stage. Despite these advancements, current works for LLM reasoning mainly focus on mathematical and coding domains, largely due to data abundance and the ease of answer verification. This limits the applicability and generalization of such models to broader domains, where questions often have diverse answer representations, and data is more scarce. In this paper, we propose General-Reasoner, a novel training paradigm designed to enhance LLM reasoning capabilities across diverse domains. Our key contributions include: (1) constructing a large-scale, high-quality dataset of questions with verifiable answers curated by web crawling, covering a wide range of disciplines; and (2) developing a generative model-based answer verifier, which replaces traditional rule-based verification with the capability of chain-of-thought and context-awareness. We train a series of models and evaluate them on a wide range of datasets covering wide domains like physics, chemistry, finance, electronics etc. Our comprehensive evaluation across these 12 benchmarks (e.g. MMLU-Pro, GPQA, SuperGPQA, TheoremQA, BBEH and MATH AMC) demonstrates that General-Reasoner outperforms existing baseline methods, achieving robust and generalizable reasoning performance while maintaining superior effectiveness in mathematical reasoning tasks.





## TTRL: Test-Time Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.16084v2
- **Authors**: ['Yuxin Zuo', 'Kaiyan Zhang', 'Li Sheng', 'Shang Qu', 'Ganqu Cui', 'Xuekai Zhu', 'Haozhan Li', 'Yuchen Zhang', 'Xinwei Long', 'Ermo Hua', 'Biqing Qi', 'Youbang Sun', 'Zhiyuan Ma', 'Lifan Yuan', 'Ning Ding', 'Bowen Zhou']
- **Abstrat**: This paper investigates Reinforcement Learning (RL) on data without explicit labels for reasoning tasks in Large Language Models (LLMs). The core challenge of the problem is reward estimation during inference while not having access to ground-truth information. While this setting appears elusive, we find that common practices in Test-Time Scaling (TTS), such as majority voting, yield surprisingly effective rewards suitable for driving RL training. In this work, we introduce Test-Time Reinforcement Learning (TTRL), a novel method for training LLMs using RL on unlabeled data. TTRL enables self-evolution of LLMs by utilizing the priors in the pre-trained models. Our experiments demonstrate that TTRL consistently improves performance across a variety of tasks and models. Notably, TTRL boosts the pass@1 performance of Qwen-2.5-Math-7B by approximately 211% on the AIME 2024 with only unlabeled test data. Furthermore, although TTRL is only supervised by the maj@n metric, TTRL has demonstrated performance to consistently surpass the upper limit of the initial model maj@n, and approach the performance of models trained directly on test data with ground-truth labels. Our experimental findings validate the general effectiveness of TTRL across various tasks and highlight TTRL's potential for broader tasks and domains. GitHub: https://github.com/PRIME-RL/TTRL





## LARES: Latent Reasoning for Sequential Recommendation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.16865v1
- **Authors**: ['Enze Liu', 'Bowen Zheng', 'Xiaolei Wang', 'Wayne Xin Zhao', 'Jinpeng Wang', 'Sheng Chen', 'Ji-Rong Wen']
- **Abstrat**: Sequential recommender systems have become increasingly important in real-world applications that model user behavior sequences to predict their preferences. However, existing sequential recommendation methods predominantly rely on non-reasoning paradigms, which may limit the model's computational capacity and result in suboptimal recommendation performance. To address these limitations, we present LARES, a novel and scalable LAtent REasoning framework for Sequential recommendation that enhances model's representation capabilities through increasing the computation density of parameters by depth-recurrent latent reasoning. Our proposed approach employs a recurrent architecture that allows flexible expansion of reasoning depth without increasing parameter complexity, thereby effectively capturing dynamic and intricate user interest patterns. A key difference of LARES lies in refining all input tokens at each implicit reasoning step to improve the computation utilization. To fully unlock the model's reasoning potential, we design a two-phase training strategy: (1) Self-supervised pre-training (SPT) with dual alignment objectives; (2) Reinforcement post-training (RPT). During the first phase, we introduce trajectory-level alignment and step-level alignment objectives, which enable the model to learn recommendation-oriented latent reasoning patterns without requiring supplementary annotated data. The subsequent phase utilizes reinforcement learning (RL) to harness the model's exploratory ability, further refining its reasoning capabilities. Comprehensive experiments on real-world benchmarks demonstrate our framework's superior performance. Notably, LARES exhibits seamless compatibility with existing advanced models, further improving their recommendation performance.





## Efficient Online RL Fine Tuning with Offline Pre-trained Policy Only
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.16856v1
- **Authors**: ['Wei Xiao', 'Jiacheng Liu', 'Zifeng Zhuang', 'Runze Suo', 'Shangke Lyu', 'Donglin Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Improving the performance of pre-trained policies through online reinforcement learning (RL) is a critical yet challenging topic. Existing online RL fine-tuning methods require continued training with offline pretrained Q-functions for stability and performance. However, these offline pretrained Q-functions commonly underestimate state-action pairs beyond the offline dataset due to the conservatism in most offline RL methods, which hinders further exploration when transitioning from the offline to the online setting. Additionally, this requirement limits their applicability in scenarios where only pre-trained policies are available but pre-trained Q-functions are absent, such as in imitation learning (IL) pre-training. To address these challenges, we propose a method for efficient online RL fine-tuning using solely the offline pre-trained policy, eliminating reliance on pre-trained Q-functions. We introduce PORL (Policy-Only Reinforcement Learning Fine-Tuning), which rapidly initializes the Q-function from scratch during the online phase to avoid detrimental pessimism. Our method not only achieves competitive performance with advanced offline-to-online RL algorithms and online RL approaches that leverage data or policies prior, but also pioneers a new path for directly fine-tuning behavior cloning (BC) policies.





## Think or Not? Selective Reasoning via Reinforcement Learning for Vision-Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.16854v1
- **Authors**: ['Jiaqi Wang', 'Kevin Qinghong Lin', 'James Cheng', 'Mike Zheng Shou']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement Learning (RL) has proven to be an effective post-training strategy for enhancing reasoning in vision-language models (VLMs). Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO) is a recent prominent method that encourages models to generate complete reasoning traces before answering, leading to increased token usage and computational cost. Inspired by the human-like thinking process-where people skip reasoning for easy questions but think carefully when needed-we explore how to enable VLMs to first decide when reasoning is necessary. To realize this, we propose TON, a two-stage training strategy: (i) a supervised fine-tuning (SFT) stage with a simple yet effective 'thought dropout' operation, where reasoning traces are randomly replaced with empty thoughts. This introduces a think-or-not format that serves as a cold start for selective reasoning; (ii) a GRPO stage that enables the model to freely explore when to think or not, while maximizing task-aware outcome rewards. Experimental results show that TON can reduce the completion length by up to 90% compared to vanilla GRPO, without sacrificing performance or even improving it. Further evaluations across diverse vision-language tasks-covering a range of reasoning difficulties under both 3B and 7B models-consistently reveal that the model progressively learns to bypass unnecessary reasoning steps as training advances. These findings shed light on the path toward human-like reasoning patterns in reinforcement learning approaches. Our code is available at https://github.com/kokolerk/TON.





## ReinWiFi: Application-Layer QoS Optimization of WiFi Networks with Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.03526v2
- **Authors**: ['Qianren Li', 'Bojie Lv', 'Yuncong Hong', 'Rui Wang']
- **Abstrat**: The enhanced distributed channel access (EDCA) mechanism is used in current wireless fidelity (WiFi) networks to support priority requirements of heterogeneous applications. However, the EDCA mechanism can not adapt to particular quality-of-service (QoS) objective, network topology, and interference level. In this paper, a novel reinforcement-learning-based scheduling framework is proposed and implemented to optimize the application-layer quality-of-service (QoS) of a WiFi network with commercial adapters and unknown interference. Particularly, application-layer tasks of file delivery and delay-sensitive communication are jointly scheduled by adjusting the contention window sizes and application-layer throughput limitation, such that the throughput of the former and the round trip time of the latter can be optimized. Due to the unknown interference and vendor-dependent implementation of the WiFi adapters, the relation between the scheduling policy and the system QoS is unknown. Hence, a reinforcement learning method is proposed, in which a novel Q-network is trained to map from the historical scheduling parameters and QoS observations to the current scheduling action. It is demonstrated on a testbed that the proposed framework can achieve a significantly better performance than the EDCA mechanism.





## Fact-R1: Towards Explainable Video Misinformation Detection with Deep Reasoning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.16836v1
- **Authors**: ['Fanrui Zhang', 'Dian Li', 'Qiang Zhang', 'Chenjun', 'sinbadliu', 'Junxiong Lin', 'Jiahong Yan', 'Jiawei Liu', 'Zheng-Jun Zha']
- **Abstrat**: The rapid spread of multimodal misinformation on social media has raised growing concerns, while research on video misinformation detection remains limited due to the lack of large-scale, diverse datasets. Existing methods often overfit to rigid templates and lack deep reasoning over deceptive content. To address these challenges, we introduce FakeVV, a large-scale benchmark comprising over 100,000 video-text pairs with fine-grained, interpretable annotations. In addition, we further propose Fact-R1, a novel framework that integrates deep reasoning with collaborative rule-based reinforcement learning. Fact-R1 is trained through a three-stage process: (1) misinformation long-Chain-of-Thought (CoT) instruction tuning, (2) preference alignment via Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), and (3) Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO) using a novel verifiable reward function. This enables Fact-R1 to exhibit emergent reasoning behaviors comparable to those observed in advanced text-based reinforcement learning systems, but in the more complex multimodal misinformation setting. Our work establishes a new paradigm for misinformation detection, bridging large-scale video understanding, reasoning-guided alignment, and interpretable verification.





## Strategically Linked Decisions in Long-Term Planning and Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.16833v1
- **Authors**: ['Alihan H체y체k', 'Finale Doshi-Velez']
- **Abstrat**: Long-term planning, as in reinforcement learning (RL), involves finding strategies: actions that collectively work toward a goal rather than individually optimizing their immediate outcomes. As part of a strategy, some actions are taken at the expense of short-term benefit to enable future actions with even greater returns. These actions are only advantageous if followed up by the actions they facilitate, consequently, they would not have been taken if those follow-ups were not available. In this paper, we quantify such dependencies between planned actions with strategic link scores: the drop in the likelihood of one decision under the constraint that a follow-up decision is no longer available. We demonstrate the utility of strategic link scores through three practical applications: (i) explaining black-box RL agents by identifying strategically linked pairs among decisions they make, (ii) improving the worst-case performance of decision support systems by distinguishing whether recommended actions can be adopted as standalone improvements or whether they are strategically linked hence requiring a commitment to a broader strategy to be effective, and (iii) characterizing the planning processes of non-RL agents purely through interventions aimed at measuring strategic link scores - as an example, we consider a realistic traffic simulator and analyze through road closures the effective planning horizon of the emergent routing behavior of many drivers.





## KTAE: A Model-Free Algorithm to Key-Tokens Advantage Estimation in Mathematical Reasoning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.16826v1
- **Authors**: ['Wei Sun', 'Wen Yang', 'Pu Jian', 'Qianlong Du', 'Fuwei Cui', 'Shuo Ren', 'Jiajun Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: Recent advances have demonstrated that integrating reinforcement learning with rule-based rewards can significantly enhance the reasoning capabilities of large language models, even without supervised fine-tuning. However, prevalent reinforcement learning algorithms such as GRPO and its variants like DAPO, suffer from a coarse granularity issue when computing the advantage. Specifically, they compute rollout-level advantages that assign identical values to every token within a sequence, failing to capture token-specific contributions and hindering effective learning. To address this limitation, we propose Key-token Advantage Estimation (KTAE) - a novel algorithm that estimates fine-grained, token-level advantages without introducing additional models. KTAE leverages the correctness of sampled rollouts and applies statistical analysis to quantify the importance of individual tokens within a sequence to the final outcome. This quantified token-level importance is then combined with the rollout-level advantage to obtain a more fine-grained token-level advantage estimation. Empirical results show that models trained with GRPO+KTAE and DAPO+KTAE outperform baseline methods across five mathematical reasoning benchmarks. Notably, they achieve higher accuracy with shorter responses and even surpass R1-Distill-Qwen-1.5B using the same base model.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## SPaRC: A Spatial Pathfinding Reasoning Challenge
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.16686v1
- **Authors**: ['Lars Benedikt Kaesberg', 'Jan Philip Wahle', 'Terry Ruas', 'Bela Gipp']
- **Abstrat**: Existing reasoning datasets saturate and fail to test abstract, multi-step problems, especially pathfinding and complex rule constraint satisfaction. We introduce SPaRC (Spatial Pathfinding Reasoning Challenge), a dataset of 1,000 2D grid pathfinding puzzles to evaluate spatial and symbolic reasoning, requiring step-by-step planning with arithmetic and geometric rules. Humans achieve near-perfect accuracy (98.0%; 94.5% on hard puzzles), while the best reasoning models, such as o4-mini, struggle (15.8%; 1.1% on hard puzzles). Models often generate invalid paths (>50% of puzzles for o4-mini), and reasoning tokens reveal they make errors in navigation and spatial logic. Unlike humans, who take longer on hard puzzles, models fail to scale test-time compute with difficulty. Allowing models to make multiple solution attempts improves accuracy, suggesting potential for better spatial reasoning with improved training and efficient test-time scaling methods. SPaRC can be used as a window into models' spatial reasoning limitations and drive research toward new methods that excel in abstract, multi-step problem-solving.





## Multi-layer Motion Planning with Kinodynamic and Spatio-Temporal Constraints
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07762v3
- **Authors**: ['Jeel Chatrola', 'Abhiroop Ajith', 'Kevin Leahy', 'Constantinos Chamzas']
- **Abstrat**: We propose a novel, multi-layered planning approach for computing paths that satisfy both kinodynamic and spatiotemporal constraints. Our three-part framework first establishes potential sequences to meet spatial constraints, using them to calculate a geometric lead path. This path then guides an asymptotically optimal sampling-based kinodynamic planner, which minimizes an STL-robustness cost to jointly satisfy spatiotemporal and kinodynamic constraints. In our experiments, we test our method with a velocity-controlled Ackerman-car model and demonstrate significant efficiency gains compared to prior art. Additionally, our method is able to generate complex path maneuvers, such as crossovers, something that previous methods had not demonstrated.





## Homotopy-Aware Multi-Agent Path Planning on Plane
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2310.01945v5
- **Authors**: ['Kazumi Kasaura']
- **Abstrat**: We propose an efficient framework using Dynnikov coordinates for homotopy-aware multi-agent path planning in planar domains that may contain obstacles. We developed a method for generating multiple homotopically distinct solutions for the multi-agent path planning problem in planar domains by combining our framework with revised prioritized planning and proved its completeness under specific assumptions. Experimentally, we demonstrated that our method is significantly faster than a method without Dynnikov coordinates. We also confirmed experimentally that homotopy-aware planning contributes to avoiding locally optimal solutions when searching for low-cost trajectories for a swarm of agents in a continuous environment.





## Coverage Path Planning For Multi-view SAR-UAV Observation System Under Energy Constraint
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.16389v1
- **Authors**: ['Deyu Song', 'Xiangyin Zhang', 'Zipei Yu', 'Kaiyu Qin']
- **Abstrat**: Multi-view Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) imaging can effectively enhance the performance of tasks such as automatic target recognition and image information fusion. Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) have the advantages of flexible deployment and cost reduction. A swarm of UAVs equipped with synthetic aperture radar imaging equipment is well suited to meet the functional requirements of multi-view synthetic aperture radar imaging missions. However, to provide optimal paths for SAR-UAVs from the base station to cover target viewpoints in the mission area is of NP-hard computational complexity. In this work, the coverage path planning problem for multi-view SAR-UAV observation systems is studied. First, the coordinate of observation viewpoints is calculated based on the location of targets and base station under a brief geometric model. Then, the exact problem formulation is modeled in order to fully describe the solution space and search for optimal paths that provide maximum coverage rate for SAR-UAVs. Finally, an Adaptive Density Peak Clustering (ADPC) method is proposed to overcome the additional energy consumption due to the viewpoints being far away from the base station. The Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) algorithm is introduced for optimal path generation. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness and computational efficiency of the proposed approach.




