# reinforcement learning
## SWE-RL: Advancing LLM Reasoning via Reinforcement Learning on Open Software Evolution
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.18449v1
- **Authors**: ['Yuxiang Wei', 'Olivier Duchenne', 'Jade Copet', 'Quentin Carbonneaux', 'Lingming Zhang', 'Daniel Fried', 'Gabriel Synnaeve', 'Rishabh Singh', 'Sida I. Wang']
- **Abstrat**: The recent DeepSeek-R1 release has demonstrated the immense potential of reinforcement learning (RL) in enhancing the general reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs). While DeepSeek-R1 and other follow-up work primarily focus on applying RL to competitive coding and math problems, this paper introduces SWE-RL, the first approach to scale RL-based LLM reasoning for real-world software engineering. Leveraging a lightweight rule-based reward (e.g., the similarity score between ground-truth and LLM-generated solutions), SWE-RL enables LLMs to autonomously recover a developer's reasoning processes and solutions by learning from extensive open-source software evolution data --the record of a software's entire lifecycle, including its code snapshots, code changes, and events such as issues and pull requests. Trained on top of Llama 3, our resulting reasoning model, Llama3-SWE-RL-70B, achieves a 41.0% solve rate on SWE-bench Verified -- a human-verified collection of real-world GitHub issues. To our knowledge, this is the best performance reported for medium-sized (<100B) LLMs to date, even comparable to leading proprietary LLMs like GPT-4o. Surprisingly, despite performing RL solely on software evolution data, Llama3-SWE-RL has even emerged with generalized reasoning skills. For example, it shows improved results on five out-of-domain tasks, namely, function coding, library use, code reasoning, mathematics, and general language understanding, whereas a supervised-finetuning baseline even leads to performance degradation on average. Overall, SWE-RL opens up a new direction to improve the reasoning capabilities of LLMs through reinforcement learning on massive software engineering data.





## MAPoRL: Multi-Agent Post-Co-Training for Collaborative Large Language Models with Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.18439v1
- **Authors**: ['Chanwoo Park', 'Seungju Han', 'Xingzhi Guo', 'Asuman Ozdaglar', 'Kaiqing Zhang', 'Joo-Kyung Kim']
- **Abstrat**: Leveraging multiple large language models (LLMs) to build collaborative multi-agentic workflows has demonstrated significant potential. However, most previous studies focus on prompting the out-of-the-box LLMs, relying on their innate capability for collaboration, which may not improve LLMs' performance as shown recently. In this paper, we introduce a new post-training paradigm MAPoRL (Multi-Agent Post-co-training for collaborative LLMs with Reinforcement Learning), to explicitly elicit the collaborative behaviors and further unleash the power of multi-agentic LLM frameworks. In MAPoRL, multiple LLMs first generate their own responses independently and engage in a multi-turn discussion to collaboratively improve the final answer. In the end, a MAPoRL verifier evaluates both the answer and the discussion, by assigning a score that verifies the correctness of the answer, while adding incentives to encourage corrective and persuasive discussions. The score serves as the co-training reward, and is then maximized through multi-agent RL. Unlike existing LLM post-training paradigms, MAPoRL advocates the co-training of multiple LLMs together using RL for better generalization. Accompanied by analytical insights, our experiments demonstrate that training individual LLMs alone is insufficient to induce effective collaboration. In contrast, multi-agent co-training can boost the collaboration performance across benchmarks, with generalization to unseen domains.





## Retrieval Dexterity: Efficient Object Retrieval in Clutters with Dexterous Hand
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.18423v1
- **Authors**: ['Fengshuo Bai', 'Yu Li', 'Jie Chu', 'Tawei Chou', 'Runchuan Zhu', 'Ying Wen', 'Yaodong Yang', 'Yuanpei Chen']
- **Abstrat**: Retrieving objects buried beneath multiple objects is not only challenging but also time-consuming. Performing manipulation in such environments presents significant difficulty due to complex contact relationships. Existing methods typically address this task by sequentially grasping and removing each occluding object, resulting in lengthy execution times and requiring impractical grasping capabilities for every occluding object. In this paper, we present a dexterous arm-hand system for efficient object retrieval in multi-object stacked environments. Our approach leverages large-scale parallel reinforcement learning within diverse and carefully designed cluttered environments to train policies. These policies demonstrate emergent manipulation skills (e.g., pushing, stirring, and poking) that efficiently clear occluding objects to expose sufficient surface area of the target object. We conduct extensive evaluations across a set of over 10 household objects in diverse clutter configurations, demonstrating superior retrieval performance and efficiency for both trained and unseen objects. Furthermore, we successfully transfer the learned policies to a real-world dexterous multi-fingered robot system, validating their practical applicability in real-world scenarios. Videos can be found on our project website https://ChangWinde.github.io/RetrDex.





## Utility-inspired Reward Transformations Improve Reinforcement Learning Training of Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.06248v2
- **Authors**: ['Roberto-Rafael Maura-Rivero', 'Chirag Nagpal', 'Roma Patel', 'Francesco Visin']
- **Abstrat**: Current methods that train large language models (LLMs) with reinforcement learning feedback, often resort to averaging outputs of multiple rewards functions during training. This overlooks crucial aspects of individual reward dimensions and inter-reward dependencies that can lead to sub-optimal outcomes in generations. In this work, we show how linear aggregation of rewards exhibits some vulnerabilities that can lead to undesired properties of generated text. We then propose a transformation of reward functions inspired by economic theory of utility functions (specifically Inada conditions), that enhances sensitivity to low reward values while diminishing sensitivity to already high values. We compare our approach to the existing baseline methods that linearly aggregate rewards and show how the Inada-inspired reward feedback is superior to traditional weighted averaging. We quantitatively and qualitatively analyse the difference in the methods, and see that models trained with Inada-transformations score as more helpful while being less harmful.





## Learning Multi-agent Multi-machine Tending by Mobile Robots
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16875v2
- **Authors**: ['Abdalwhab Abdalwhab', 'Giovanni Beltrame', 'Samira Ebrahimi Kahou', 'David St-Onge']
- **Abstrat**: Robotics can help address the growing worker shortage challenge of the manufacturing industry. As such, machine tending is a task collaborative robots can tackle that can also highly boost productivity. Nevertheless, existing robotics systems deployed in that sector rely on a fixed single-arm setup, whereas mobile robots can provide more flexibility and scalability. In this work, we introduce a multi-agent multi-machine tending learning framework by mobile robots based on Multi-agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL) techniques with the design of a suitable observation and reward. Moreover, an attention-based encoding mechanism is developed and integrated into Multi-agent Proximal Policy Optimization (MAPPO) algorithm to boost its performance for machine tending scenarios. Our model (AB-MAPPO) outperformed MAPPO in this new challenging scenario in terms of task success, safety, and resources utilization. Furthermore, we provided an extensive ablation study to support our various design decisions.





## Entropy-Regularized Mean-Variance Portfolio Optimization with Jumps
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.13409v2
- **Authors**: ['Christian Bender', 'Nguyen Tran Thuan']
- **Abstrat**: Motivated by the trade-off between exploitation and exploration in reinforcement learning, we study a continuous-time entropy-regularized mean variance portfolio selection problem in the presence of jumps. We propose an exploratory SDE for the wealth process associated with multiple risky assets which exhibit L\'evy jumps. In contrast to the existing literature, we study the limiting behavior of the natural discrete-time formulation of the wealth process associated to a randomized control in order to derive the continuous-time dynamics. We then show that an optimal distributional control of the continuous-time entropy-regularized exploratory mean-variance problem is Gaussian. The respective optimal wealth process solves a linear SDE whose representation is explicitly obtained.





## DFM: Deep Fourier Mimic for Expressive Dance Motion Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.10980v2
- **Authors**: ['Ryo Watanabe', 'Chenhao Li', 'Marco Hutter']
- **Abstrat**: As entertainment robots gain popularity, the demand for natural and expressive motion, particularly in dancing, continues to rise. Traditionally, dancing motions have been manually designed by artists, a process that is both labor-intensive and restricted to simple motion playback, lacking the flexibility to incorporate additional tasks such as locomotion or gaze control during dancing. To overcome these challenges, we introduce Deep Fourier Mimic (DFM), a novel method that combines advanced motion representation with Reinforcement Learning (RL) to enable smooth transitions between motions while concurrently managing auxiliary tasks during dance sequences. While previous frequency domain based motion representations have successfully encoded dance motions into latent parameters, they often impose overly rigid periodic assumptions at the local level, resulting in reduced tracking accuracy and motion expressiveness, which is a critical aspect for entertainment robots. By relaxing these locally periodic constraints, our approach not only enhances tracking precision but also facilitates smooth transitions between different motions. Furthermore, the learned RL policy that supports simultaneous base activities, such as locomotion and gaze control, allows entertainment robots to engage more dynamically and interactively with users rather than merely replaying static, pre-designed dance routines.





## Non-maximizing policies that fulfill multi-criterion aspirations in expectation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.04385v2
- **Authors**: ['Simon Dima', 'Simon Fischer', 'Jobst Heitzig', 'Joss Oliver']
- **Abstrat**: In dynamic programming and reinforcement learning, the policy for the sequential decision making of an agent in a stochastic environment is usually determined by expressing the goal as a scalar reward function and seeking a policy that maximizes the expected total reward. However, many goals that humans care about naturally concern multiple aspects of the world, and it may not be obvious how to condense those into a single reward function. Furthermore, maximization suffers from specification gaming, where the obtained policy achieves a high expected total reward in an unintended way, often taking extreme or nonsensical actions.   Here we consider finite acyclic Markov Decision Processes with multiple distinct evaluation metrics, which do not necessarily represent quantities that the user wants to be maximized. We assume the task of the agent is to ensure that the vector of expected totals of the evaluation metrics falls into some given convex set, called the aspiration set. Our algorithm guarantees that this task is fulfilled by using simplices to approximate feasibility sets and propagate aspirations forward while ensuring they remain feasible. It has complexity linear in the number of possible state-action-successor triples and polynomial in the number of evaluation metrics. Moreover, the explicitly non-maximizing nature of the chosen policy and goals yields additional degrees of freedom, which can be used to apply heuristic safety criteria to the choice of actions. We discuss several such safety criteria that aim to steer the agent towards more conservative behavior.





## Controlling dynamics of stochastic systems with deep reinforcement learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.18111v1
- **Authors**: ['Ruslan Mukhamadiarov']
- **Abstrat**: A properly designed controller can help improve the quality of experimental measurements or force a dynamical system to follow a completely new time-evolution path. Recent developments in deep reinforcement learning have made steep advances toward designing effective control schemes for fairly complex systems. However, a general simulation scheme that employs deep reinforcement learning for exerting control in stochastic systems is yet to be established. In this paper, we attempt to further bridge a gap between control theory and deep reinforcement learning by proposing a simulation algorithm that allows achieving control of the dynamics of stochastic systems through the use of trained artificial neural networks. Specifically, we use agent-based simulations where the neural network plays the role of the controller that drives local state-to-state transitions. We demonstrate the workflow and the effectiveness of the proposed control methods by considering the following two stochastic processes: particle coalescence on a lattice and a totally asymmetric exclusion process.





## Following the Human Thread in Social Navigation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.11327v2
- **Authors**: ['Luca Scofano', 'Alessio Sampieri', 'Tommaso Campari', 'Valentino Sacco', 'Indro Spinelli', 'Lamberto Ballan', 'Fabio Galasso']
- **Abstrat**: The success of collaboration between humans and robots in shared environments relies on the robot's real-time adaptation to human motion. Specifically, in Social Navigation, the agent should be close enough to assist but ready to back up to let the human move freely, avoiding collisions. Human trajectories emerge as crucial cues in Social Navigation, but they are partially observable from the robot's egocentric view and computationally complex to process.   We present the first Social Dynamics Adaptation model (SDA) based on the robot's state-action history to infer the social dynamics. We propose a two-stage Reinforcement Learning framework: the first learns to encode the human trajectories into social dynamics and learns a motion policy conditioned on this encoded information, the current status, and the previous action. Here, the trajectories are fully visible, i.e., assumed as privileged information. In the second stage, the trained policy operates without direct access to trajectories. Instead, the model infers the social dynamics solely from the history of previous actions and statuses in real-time. Tested on the novel Habitat 3.0 platform, SDA sets a novel state-of-the-art (SotA) performance in finding and following humans.   The code can be found at https://github.com/L-Scofano/SDA.





## Adaptive Segment-level Reward: Bridging the Gap Between Action and Reward Space in Alignment
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.00809v3
- **Authors**: ['Yanshi Li', 'Shaopan Xiong', 'Gengru Chen', 'Xiaoyang Li', 'Yijia Luo', 'Xingyuan Bu', 'Yingshui Tan', 'Wenbo Su', 'Bo Zheng']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement Learning (RL) has proven highly effective in aligning Large Language Models (LLMs) with human preferences. Typical RL methods optimize under an overall sequence reward, which can lead to a suboptimal learning process. This reflects a key credit assignment problem: identifying which tokens to reinforce or suppress. To rectify these shortcomings, step-wise and token-wise methods have been proposed. However, step-wise methods rely on punctuation segmentation and still cannot accurately identify the key tokens. The token-level approach is too fine-grained, attending to many unimportant tokens and thus introducing a large amount of noise. To assign more accurate rewards to different tokens, improving credit assignment, we propose the "Adaptive Segment-wise Reward" method. We employ semantic meaning, rather than punctuation, to adaptively delineate segments. Experiments demonstrate that our method can be integrated into various training methods. Compared to training methods \textit{without} our approach, our method improves the success rate on adversarial samples by 10\%, and achieves a 1.3\% improvement on evaluation benchmarks such as MMLU, GSM8K, HumanEval, etc.





## Learning Collusion in Episodic, Inventory-Constrained Markets
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18871v2
- **Authors**: ['Paul Friedrich', 'Barna Pásztor', 'Giorgia Ramponi']
- **Abstrat**: Pricing algorithms have demonstrated the capability to learn tacit collusion that is largely unaddressed by current regulations. Their increasing use in markets, including oligopolistic industries with a history of collusion, calls for closer examination by competition authorities. In this paper, we extend the study of tacit collusion in learning algorithms from basic pricing games to more complex markets characterized by perishable goods with fixed supply and sell-by dates, such as airline tickets, perishables, and hotel rooms. We formalize collusion within this framework and introduce a metric based on price levels under both the competitive (Nash) equilibrium and collusive (monopolistic) optimum. Since no analytical expressions for these price levels exist, we propose an efficient computational approach to derive them. Through experiments, we demonstrate that deep reinforcement learning agents can learn to collude in this more complex domain. Additionally, we analyze the underlying mechanisms and structures of the collusive strategies these agents adopt.





## From planning to policy: distilling $\texttt{Skill-RRT}$ for long-horizon prehensile and non-prehensile manipulation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.18015v1
- **Authors**: ['Haewon Jung', 'Donguk Lee', 'Haecheol Park', 'JunHyeop Kim', 'Beomjoon Kim']
- **Abstrat**: Current robots face challenges in manipulation tasks that require a long sequence of prehensile and non-prehensile skills. This involves handling contact-rich interactions and chaining multiple skills while considering their long-term consequences. This paper presents a framework that leverages imitation learning to distill a planning algorithm, capable of solving long-horizon problems but requiring extensive computation time, into a policy for efficient action inference. We introduce $\texttt{Skill-RRT}$, an extension of the rapidly-exploring random tree (RRT) that incorporates skill applicability checks and intermediate object pose sampling for efficient long-horizon planning. To enable skill chaining, we propose $\textit{connectors}$, goal-conditioned policies that transition between skills while minimizing object disturbance. Using lazy planning, connectors are selectively trained on relevant transitions, reducing the cost of training. High-quality demonstrations are generated with $\texttt{Skill-RRT}$ and refined by a noise-based replay mechanism to ensure robust policy performance. The distilled policy, trained entirely in simulation, zero-shot transfer to the real world, and achieves over 80% success rates across three challenging manipulation tasks. In simulation, our approach outperforms the state-of-the-art skill-based reinforcement learning method, $\texttt{MAPLE}$, and $\texttt{Skill-RRT}$.





## NotaGen: Advancing Musicality in Symbolic Music Generation with Large Language Model Training Paradigms
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.18008v1
- **Authors**: ['Yashan Wang', 'Shangda Wu', 'Jianhuai Hu', 'Xingjian Du', 'Yueqi Peng', 'Yongxin Huang', 'Shuai Fan', 'Xiaobing Li', 'Feng Yu', 'Maosong Sun']
- **Abstrat**: We introduce NotaGen, a symbolic music generation model aiming to explore the potential of producing high-quality classical sheet music. Inspired by the success of Large Language Models (LLMs), NotaGen adopts pre-training, fine-tuning, and reinforcement learning paradigms (henceforth referred to as the LLM training paradigms). It is pre-trained on 1.6M pieces of music, and then fine-tuned on approximately 9K high-quality classical compositions conditioned on "period-composer-instrumentation" prompts. For reinforcement learning, we propose the CLaMP-DPO method, which further enhances generation quality and controllability without requiring human annotations or predefined rewards. Our experiments demonstrate the efficacy of CLaMP-DPO in symbolic music generation models with different architectures and encoding schemes. Furthermore, subjective A/B tests show that NotaGen outperforms baseline models against human compositions, greatly advancing musical aesthetics in symbolic music generation.The project homepage is https://electricalexis.github.io/notagen-demo.





## Provable Performance Bounds for Digital Twin-driven Deep Reinforcement Learning in Wireless Networks: A Novel Digital-Twin Bisimulation Metric
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.17983v1
- **Authors**: ['Zhenyu Tao', 'Wei Xu', 'Xiaohu You']
- **Abstrat**: Digital twin (DT)-driven deep reinforcement learning (DRL) has emerged as a promising paradigm for wireless network optimization, offering safe and efficient training environment for policy exploration. However, in theory existing methods cannot always guarantee real-world performance of DT-trained policies before actual deployment, due to the absence of a universal metric for assessing DT's ability to support reliable DRL training transferrable to physical networks. In this paper, we propose the DT bisimulation metric (DT-BSM), a novel metric based on the Wasserstein distance, to quantify the discrepancy between Markov decision processes (MDPs) in both the DT and the corresponding real-world wireless network environment. We prove that for any DT-trained policy, the sub-optimality of its performance (regret) in the real-world deployment is bounded by a weighted sum of the DT-BSM and its sub-optimality within the MDP in the DT. Then, a modified DT-BSM based on the total variation distance is also introduced to avoid the prohibitive calculation complexity of Wasserstein distance for large-scale wireless network scenarios. Further, to tackle the challenge of obtaining accurate transition probabilities of the MDP in real world for the DT-BSM calculation, we propose an empirical DT-BSM method based on statistical sampling. We prove that the empirical DT-BSM always converges to the desired theoretical one, and quantitatively establish the relationship between the required sample size and the target level of approximation accuracy. Numerical experiments validate this first theoretical finding on the provable and calculable performance bounds for DT-driven DRL.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning