# reinforcement learning
## VIKI-R: Coordinating Embodied Multi-Agent Cooperation via Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.09049v1
- **Authors**: ['Li Kang', 'Xiufeng Song', 'Heng Zhou', 'Yiran Qin', 'Jie Yang', 'Xiaohong Liu', 'Philip Torr', 'Lei Bai', 'Zhenfei Yin']
- **Abstrat**: Coordinating multiple embodied agents in dynamic environments remains a core challenge in artificial intelligence, requiring both perception-driven reasoning and scalable cooperation strategies. While recent works have leveraged large language models (LLMs) for multi-agent planning, a few have begun to explore vision-language models (VLMs) for visual reasoning. However, these VLM-based approaches remain limited in their support for diverse embodiment types. In this work, we introduce VIKI-Bench, the first hierarchical benchmark tailored for embodied multi-agent cooperation, featuring three structured levels: agent activation, task planning, and trajectory perception. VIKI-Bench includes diverse robot embodiments, multi-view visual observations, and structured supervision signals to evaluate reasoning grounded in visual inputs. To demonstrate the utility of VIKI-Bench, we propose VIKI-R, a two-stage framework that fine-tunes a pretrained vision-language model (VLM) using Chain-of-Thought annotated demonstrations, followed by reinforcement learning under multi-level reward signals. Our extensive experiments show that VIKI-R significantly outperforms baselines method across all task levels. Furthermore, we show that reinforcement learning enables the emergence of compositional cooperation patterns among heterogeneous agents. Together, VIKI-Bench and VIKI-R offer a unified testbed and method for advancing multi-agent, visual-driven cooperation in embodied AI systems.





## GFRIEND: Generative Few-shot Reward Inference through EfficieNt DPO
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.08965v1
- **Authors**: ['Yiyang Zhao', 'Huiyu Bai', 'Xuejiao Zhao']
- **Abstrat**: The ability to train high-performing reward models with few-shot data is critical for enhancing the efficiency and scalability of Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF). We propose a data augmentation and expansion framework that enables generative reward models trained on small datasets to achieve comparable performance to those trained on large-scale datasets. Traditional methods to train a generative reward model, such as Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), are constrained by inefficiencies in sample pairing and limited data diversity. This work introduces preference refinement, which employs Chain-of-Thought (CoT) sampling to uncover diverse and high-quality preference relationships. It also incorporates a perplexity-based scoring mechanism to assign nuanced preference levels and utilizes Multi-level Direct Preference Optimization (M-DPO) to enable the model to capture finer-grained preference differences between samples. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method significantly enhances data efficiency and model performance, enabling reward models trained in a few-shot setting to achieve results on par with those trained on large-scale datasets. This study underscores the potential of data-efficient strategies in advancing reward model optimization, offering a robust solution for low-resource RLHF applications.





## Agile Reinforcement Learning for Real-Time Task Scheduling in Edge Computing
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.08850v1
- **Authors**: ['Amin Avan', 'Akramul Azim', 'Qusay Mahmoud']
- **Abstrat**: Soft real-time applications are becoming increasingly complex, posing significant challenges for scheduling offloaded tasks in edge computing environments while meeting task timing constraints. Moreover, the exponential growth of the search space, presence of multiple objectives and parameters, and highly dynamic nature of edge computing environments further exacerbate the complexity of task scheduling. As a result, schedulers based on heuristic and metaheuristic algorithms frequently encounter difficulties in generating optimal or near-optimal task schedules due to their constrained ability to adapt to the dynamic conditions and complex environmental characteristics of edge computing. Accordingly, reinforcement learning algorithms have been incorporated into schedulers to address the complexity and dynamic conditions inherent in task scheduling in edge computing. However, a significant limitation of reinforcement learning algorithms is the prolonged learning time required to adapt to new environments and to address medium- and large-scale problems. This challenge arises from the extensive global action space and frequent random exploration of irrelevant actions. Therefore, this study proposes Agile Reinforcement learning (aRL), in which the RL-agent performs informed exploration and executes only relevant actions. Consequently, the predictability of the RL-agent is enhanced, leading to rapid adaptation and convergence, which positions aRL as a suitable candidate for scheduling the tasks of soft real-time applications in edge computing. The experiments demonstrate that the combination of informed exploration and action-masking methods enables aRL to achieve a higher hit-ratio and converge faster than the baseline approaches.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning