# reinforcement learning
## Stop Overthinking: A Survey on Efficient Reasoning for Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.16419v1
- **Authors**: ['Yang Sui', 'Yu-Neng Chuang', 'Guanchu Wang', 'Jiamu Zhang', 'Tianyi Zhang', 'Jiayi Yuan', 'Hongyi Liu', 'Andrew Wen', 'Shaochen', 'Zhong', 'Hanjie Chen', 'Xia Hu']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities in complex tasks. Recent advancements in Large Reasoning Models (LRMs), such as OpenAI o1 and DeepSeek-R1, have further improved performance in System-2 reasoning domains like mathematics and programming by harnessing supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and reinforcement learning (RL) techniques to enhance the Chain-of-Thought (CoT) reasoning. However, while longer CoT reasoning sequences improve performance, they also introduce significant computational overhead due to verbose and redundant outputs, known as the "overthinking phenomenon". In this paper, we provide the first structured survey to systematically investigate and explore the current progress toward achieving efficient reasoning in LLMs. Overall, relying on the inherent mechanism of LLMs, we categorize existing works into several key directions: (1) model-based efficient reasoning, which considers optimizing full-length reasoning models into more concise reasoning models or directly training efficient reasoning models; (2) reasoning output-based efficient reasoning, which aims to dynamically reduce reasoning steps and length during inference; (3) input prompts-based efficient reasoning, which seeks to enhance reasoning efficiency based on input prompt properties such as difficulty or length control. Additionally, we introduce the use of efficient data for training reasoning models, explore the reasoning capabilities of small language models, and discuss evaluation methods and benchmarking.





## Reinforcement Learning-based Heuristics to Guide Domain-Independent Dynamic Programming
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.16371v1
- **Authors**: ['Minori Narita', 'Ryo Kuroiwa', 'J. Christopher Beck']
- **Abstrat**: Domain-Independent Dynamic Programming (DIDP) is a state-space search paradigm based on dynamic programming for combinatorial optimization. In its current implementation, DIDP guides the search using user-defined dual bounds. Reinforcement learning (RL) is increasingly being applied to combinatorial optimization problems and shares several key structures with DP, being represented by the Bellman equation and state-based transition systems. We propose using reinforcement learning to obtain a heuristic function to guide the search in DIDP. We develop two RL-based guidance approaches: value-based guidance using Deep Q-Networks and policy-based guidance using Proximal Policy Optimization. Our experiments indicate that RL-based guidance significantly outperforms standard DIDP and problem-specific greedy heuristics with the same number of node expansions. Further, despite longer node evaluation times, RL guidance achieves better run-time performance than standard DIDP on three of four benchmark domains.





## Fin-R1: A Large Language Model for Financial Reasoning through Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.16252v1
- **Authors**: ['Zhaowei Liu', 'Xin Guo', 'Fangqi Lou', 'Lingfeng Zeng', 'Jinyi Niu', 'Zixuan Wang', 'Jiajie Xu', 'Weige Cai', 'Ziwei Yang', 'Xueqian Zhao', 'Chao Li', 'Sheng Xu', 'Dezhi Chen', 'Yun Chen', 'Zuo Bai', 'Liwen Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: Reasoning large language models are rapidly evolving across various domains. However, their capabilities in handling complex financial tasks still require in-depth exploration. In this paper, we introduce Fin-R1, a reasoning large language model specifically designed for the financial sector. Fin-R1 is built using a two-stage architecture, leveraging a financial reasoning dataset distilled and processed based on DeepSeek-R1. Through supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and reinforcement learning (RL) training, it demonstrates performance close to DeepSeek-R1 with a parameter size of 7 billion across a range of financial reasoning tasks. It achieves the state-of-the-art (SOTA) in the FinQA and ConvFinQA tasks between those LLMs in our evaluation, surpassing larger models in other tasks as well. Fin-R1 showcases strong reasoning and decision-making capabilities, providing solutions to various problems encountered in the financial domain. Our code is available at https://github.com/SUFE-AIFLM-Lab/Fin-R1.





## Navigating Demand Uncertainty in Container Shipping: Deep Reinforcement Learning for Enabling Adaptive and Feasible Master Stowage Planning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.12756v3
- **Authors**: ['Jaike van Twiller', 'Yossiri Adulyasak', 'Erick Delage', 'Djordje Grbic', 'Rune Møller Jensen']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning (RL) has shown promise in solving various combinatorial optimization problems. However, conventional RL faces challenges when dealing with real-world constraints, especially when action space feasibility is explicit and dependent on the corresponding state or trajectory. In this work, we focus on using RL in container shipping, often considered the cornerstone of global trade, by dealing with the critical challenge of master stowage planning. The main objective is to maximize cargo revenue and minimize operational costs while navigating demand uncertainty and various complex operational constraints, namely vessel capacity and stability, which must be dynamically updated along the vessel's voyage. To address this problem, we implement a deep reinforcement learning framework with feasibility projection to solve the master stowage planning problem (MPP) under demand uncertainty. The experimental results show that our architecture efficiently finds adaptive, feasible solutions for this multi-stage stochastic optimization problem, outperforming traditional mixed-integer programming and RL with feasibility regularization. Our AI-driven decision-support policy enables adaptive and feasible planning under uncertainty, optimizing operational efficiency and capacity utilization while contributing to sustainable and resilient global supply chains.





## Reinforcement Learning for Reasoning in Small LLMs: What Works and What Doesn't
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.16219v1
- **Authors**: ['Quy-Anh Dang', 'Chris Ngo']
- **Abstrat**: Enhancing the reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs) typically relies on massive computational resources and extensive datasets, limiting accessibility for resource-constrained settings. Our study investigates the potential of reinforcement learning (RL) to improve reasoning in small LLMs, focusing on a 1.5-billion-parameter model, DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-1.5B, under strict constraints: training on 4 NVIDIA A40 GPUs (48 GB VRAM each) within 24 hours. Adapting the Group Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO) algorithm and curating a compact, high-quality mathematical reasoning dataset, we conducted three experiments to explore model behavior and performance. Our results demonstrate rapid reasoning gains - e.g., AMC23 accuracy rising from 63% to 80% and AIME24 reaching 46.7%, surpassing o1-preview - using only 7,000 samples and a $42 training cost, compared to thousands of dollars for baseline models. However, challenges such as optimization instability and length constraints emerged with prolonged training. These findings highlight the efficacy of RL-based fine-tuning for small LLMs, offering a cost-effective alternative to large-scale approaches. We release our code and datasets as open-source resources, providing insights into trade-offs and laying a foundation for scalable, reasoning-capable LLMs in resource-limited environments. All are available at https://github.com/knoveleng/open-rs.





## Explosive Jumping with Rigid and Articulated Soft Quadrupeds via Example Guided Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.16197v1
- **Authors**: ['Georgios Apostolides', 'Wei Pan', 'Jens Kober', 'Cosimo Della Santina', 'Jiatao Ding']
- **Abstrat**: Achieving controlled jumping behaviour for a quadruped robot is a challenging task, especially when introducing passive compliance in mechanical design. This study addresses this challenge via imitation-based deep reinforcement learning with a progressive training process. To start, we learn the jumping skill by mimicking a coarse jumping example generated by model-based trajectory optimization. Subsequently, we generalize the learned policy to broader situations, including various distances in both forward and lateral directions, and then pursue robust jumping in unknown ground unevenness. In addition, without tuning the reward much, we learn the jumping policy for a quadruped with parallel elasticity. Results show that using the proposed method, i) the robot learns versatile jumps by learning only from a single demonstration, ii) the robot with parallel compliance reduces the landing error by 11.1%, saves energy cost by 15.2% and reduces the peak torque by 15.8%, compared to the rigid robot without parallel elasticity, iii) the robot can perform jumps of variable distances with robustness against ground unevenness (maximal 4cm height perturbations) using only proprioceptive perception.





## Nonparametric Bellman Mappings for Value Iteration in Distributed Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.16192v1
- **Authors**: ['Yuki Akiyama', 'Konstantinos Slavakis']
- **Abstrat**: This paper introduces novel Bellman mappings (B-Maps) for value iteration (VI) in distributed reinforcement learning (DRL), where multiple agents operate over a network without a centralized fusion node. Each agent constructs its own nonparametric B-Map for VI while communicating only with direct neighbors to achieve consensus. These B-Maps operate on Q-functions represented in a reproducing kernel Hilbert space, enabling a nonparametric formulation that allows for flexible, agent-specific basis function design. Unlike existing DRL methods that restrict information exchange to Q-function estimates, the proposed framework also enables agents to share basis information in the form of covariance matrices, capturing additional structural details. A theoretical analysis establishes linear convergence rates for both Q-function and covariance-matrix estimates toward their consensus values. The optimal learning rates for consensus-based updates are dictated by the ratio of the smallest positive eigenvalue to the largest one of the network's Laplacian matrix. Furthermore, each nodal Q-function estimate is shown to lie very close to the fixed point of a centralized nonparametric B-Map, effectively allowing the proposed DRL design to approximate the performance of a centralized fusion center. Numerical experiments on two well-known control problems demonstrate the superior performance of the proposed nonparametric B-Maps compared to prior methods. Notably, the results reveal a counter-intuitive finding: although the proposed approach involves greater information exchange -- specifically through the sharing of covariance matrices -- it achieves the desired performance with lower cumulative communication cost than existing DRL schemes, highlighting the crucial role of basis information in accelerating the learning process.





## CLS-RL: Image Classification with Rule-Based Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.16188v1
- **Authors**: ['Ming Li', 'Shitian Zhao', 'Jike Zhong', 'Yuxiang Lai', 'Kaipeng Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: Classification is a core task in machine learning. Recent research has shown that although Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) are initially poor at image classification, fine-tuning them with an adequate amount of data can significantly enhance their performance, making them comparable to SOTA classification models. However, acquiring large-scale labeled data is expensive. In this paper, we explore few-shot MLLM classification fine-tuning. We found that SFT can cause severe overfitting issues and may even degrade performance over the zero-shot approach. To address this challenge, inspired by the recent successes in rule-based reinforcement learning, we propose CLS-RL, which uses verifiable signals as reward to fine-tune MLLMs. We discovered that CLS-RL outperforms SFT in most datasets and has a much higher average accuracy on both base-to-new and few-shot learning setting. Moreover, we observed a free-lunch phenomenon for CLS-RL; when models are fine-tuned on a particular dataset, their performance on other distinct datasets may also improve over zero-shot models, even if those datasets differ in distribution and class names. This suggests that RL-based methods effectively teach models the fundamentals of classification. Lastly, inspired by recent works in inference time thinking, we re-examine the `thinking process' during fine-tuning, a critical aspect of RL-based methods, in the context of visual classification. We question whether such tasks require extensive thinking process during fine-tuning, proposing that this may actually detract from performance. Based on this premise, we introduce the No-Thinking-CLS-RL method, which minimizes thinking processes during training by setting an equality accuracy reward. Our findings indicate that, with much less fine-tuning time, No-Thinking-CLS-RL method achieves superior in-domain performance and generalization capabilities than CLS-RL.





## Sample Efficient Preference Alignment in LLMs via Active Exploration
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00267v3
- **Authors**: ['Viraj Mehta', 'Syrine Belakaria', 'Vikramjeet Das', 'Ojash Neopane', 'Yijia Dai', 'Ilija Bogunovic', 'Barbara Engelhardt', 'Stefano Ermon', 'Jeff Schneider', 'Willie Neiswanger']
- **Abstrat**: Preference-based feedback is important for many applications in machine learning where evaluation of a reward function is not feasible. Notable recent examples arise in preference alignment for large language models, including in reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) and direct preference optimization (DPO). For many applications of preference alignment, the cost of acquiring human feedback can be substantial. In this work, we take advantage of the fact that one can often choose contexts at which to obtain human feedback to most efficiently identify a good policy, and formalize the setting as an active contextual dueling bandit problem. We propose an active exploration algorithm to efficiently select the data and provide theoretical proof that it has a polynomial worst-case regret bound. We extend the setting and methodology for practical use in preference alignment of large language models. We provide two extensions, an online and an offline approach. Our method outperforms the baselines with limited samples of human preferences on several language models and four real-world datasets including two new datasets that we contribute to the literature.





## RLOMM: An Efficient and Robust Online Map Matching Framework with Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.06825v2
- **Authors**: ['Minxiao Chen', 'Haitao Yuan', 'Nan Jiang', 'Zhihan Zheng', 'Sai Wu', 'Ao Zhou', 'Shangguang Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Online map matching is a fundamental problem in location-based services, aiming to incrementally match trajectory data step-by-step onto a road network. However, existing methods fail to meet the needs for efficiency, robustness, and accuracy required by large-scale online applications, making this task still challenging. This paper introduces a novel framework that achieves high accuracy and efficient matching while ensuring robustness in handling diverse scenarios. To improve efficiency, we begin by modeling the online map matching problem as an Online Markov Decision Process (OMDP) based on its inherent characteristics. This approach helps efficiently merge historical and real-time data, reducing unnecessary calculations. Next, to enhance robustness, we design a reinforcement learning method, enabling robust handling of real-time data from dynamically changing environments. In particular, we propose a novel model learning process and a comprehensive reward function, allowing the model to make reasonable current matches from a future-oriented perspective, and to continuously update and optimize during the decision-making process based on feedback. Lastly, to address the heterogeneity between trajectories and roads, we design distinct graph structures, facilitating efficient representation learning through graph and recurrent neural networks. To further align trajectory and road data, we introduce contrastive learning to decrease their distance in the latent space, thereby promoting effective integration of the two. Extensive evaluations on three real-world datasets confirm that our method significantly outperforms existing state-of-the-art solutions in terms of accuracy, efficiency and robustness.





## Mitigating Sycophancy in Decoder-Only Transformer Architectures: Synthetic Data Intervention
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.10156v5
- **Authors**: ['Libo Wang']
- **Abstrat**: To address the sycophancy problem caused by reinforcement learning from human feedback in large language models, this research applies synthetic data intervention technology to the decoder-only transformer architecture. Based on the research gaps in the existing literature, the researcher designed an experimental process to reduce the tendency of models to cater by generating diversified data, and used GPT4o as an experimental tool for verification. The experiment used 100 true and false questions, and compared the performance of the model trained with synthetic data intervention and the original untrained model on multiple indicators. The results show that the SDI training model supports the technology in terms of accuracy rate and sycophancy rate and has significant effectiveness in reducing sycophancy phenomena.





## Cultural Alignment in Large Language Models Using Soft Prompt Tuning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.16094v1
- **Authors**: ['Reem I. Masoud', 'Martin Ferianc', 'Philip Treleaven', 'Miguel Rodrigues']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Model (LLM) alignment conventionally relies on supervised fine-tuning or reinforcement learning based alignment frameworks. These methods typically require labeled or preference datasets and involve updating model weights to align the LLM with the training objective or reward model. Meanwhile, in social sciences such as cross-cultural studies, factor analysis is widely used to uncover underlying dimensions or latent variables that explain observed patterns in survey data. The non-differentiable nature of these measurements deriving from survey data renders the former alignment methods infeasible for alignment with cultural dimensions. To overcome this, we propose a parameter efficient strategy that combines soft prompt tuning, which freezes the model parameters while modifying the input prompt embeddings, with Differential Evolution (DE), a black-box optimization method for cases where a differentiable objective is unattainable. This strategy ensures alignment consistency without the need for preference data or model parameter updates, significantly enhancing efficiency and mitigating overfitting. Our method demonstrates significant improvements in LLama-3-8B-Instruct's cultural dimensions across multiple regions, outperforming both the Naive LLM and the In-context Learning (ICL) baseline, and effectively bridges computational models with human cultural nuances.





## Relational Object-Centric Actor-Critic
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2310.17178v2
- **Authors**: ['Leonid Ugadiarov', 'Vitaliy Vorobyov', 'Aleksandr I. Panov']
- **Abstrat**: The advances in unsupervised object-centric representation learning have significantly improved its application to downstream tasks. Recent works highlight that disentangled object representations can aid policy learning in image-based, object-centric reinforcement learning tasks. This paper proposes a novel object-centric reinforcement learning algorithm that integrates actor-critic and model-based approaches by incorporating an object-centric world model within the critic. The world model captures the environment's data-generating process by predicting the next state and reward given the current state-action pair, where actions are interventions in the environment. In model-based reinforcement learning, world model learning can be interpreted as a causal induction problem, where the agent must learn the causal relationships underlying the environment's dynamics. We evaluate our method in a simulated 3D robotic environment and a 2D environment with compositional structure. As baselines, we compare against object-centric, model-free actor-critic algorithms and a state-of-the-art monolithic model-based algorithm. While the baselines show comparable performance in easier tasks, our approach outperforms them in more challenging scenarios with a large number of objects or more complex dynamics.





## OThink-MR1: Stimulating multimodal generalized reasoning capabilities through dynamic reinforcement learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.16081v1
- **Authors**: ['Zhiyuan Liu', 'Yuting Zhang', 'Feng Liu', 'Changwang Zhang', 'Ying Sun', 'Jun Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Multimodal Language Models have gained significant traction for their ability to process diverse input data types and generate coherent, contextually relevant outputs across various applications. While supervised fine-tuning (SFT) has been the predominant approach to enhance MLLM capabilities in task-specific optimization, it often falls short in fostering crucial generalized reasoning abilities. Despite the potential of reinforcement learning (RL) to address these limitations, it faces two issues: (1) its generalized capabilities in multimodal tasks remain underexplored. (2) its training constraints such as constant Kullback-Leibler or clamp strategy easily lead to suboptimal bottleneck. To adress these issues, we introduce OThink-MR1, a framework that extends RL to MLLMs, enabling them to achieve deeper understanding and reasoning across multimodal tasks. We design a dynamic Kullback-Leibler strategy that significantly enhances RL performance, surpassing SFT in same-task evaluations. Also, we are the first to reveal that RL exhibits remarkable cross-task generalization capabilities, which shows that models post-trained with RL on one multimodal task can be effectively transfered to another tasks. Finally, extensive experiments demonstrate the great reasoning ability of our proposed OThink-MR1.





## Crowd-PrefRL: Preference-Based Reward Learning from Crowds
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2401.10941v2
- **Authors**: ['David Chhan', 'Ellen Novoseller', 'Vernon J. Lawhern']
- **Abstrat**: Preference-based reinforcement learning (RL) provides a framework to train AI agents using human feedback through preferences over pairs of behaviors, enabling agents to learn desired behaviors when it is difficult to specify a numerical reward function. While this paradigm leverages human feedback, it typically treats the feedback as given by a single human user. However, different users may desire multiple AI behaviors and modes of interaction. Meanwhile, incorporating preference feedback from crowds (i.e. ensembles of users) in a robust manner remains a challenge, and the problem of training RL agents using feedback from multiple human users remains understudied. In this work, we introduce a conceptual framework, Crowd-PrefRL, that integrates preference-based RL approaches with techniques from unsupervised crowdsourcing to enable training of autonomous system behaviors from crowdsourced feedback. We show preliminary results suggesting that Crowd-PrefRL can learn reward functions and agent policies from preference feedback provided by crowds of unknown expertise and reliability. We also show that in most cases, agents trained with Crowd-PrefRL outperform agents trained with majority-vote preferences or preferences from any individual user, especially when the spread of user error rates among the crowd is large. Results further suggest that our method can identify the presence of minority viewpoints within the crowd in an unsupervised manner.





## GraphXForm: Graph transformer for computer-aided molecular design
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.01667v2
- **Authors**: ['Jonathan Pirnay', 'Jan G. Rittig', 'Alexander B. Wolf', 'Martin Grohe', 'Jakob Burger', 'Alexander Mitsos', 'Dominik G. Grimm']
- **Abstrat**: Generative deep learning has become pivotal in molecular design for drug discovery, materials science, and chemical engineering. A widely used paradigm is to pretrain neural networks on string representations of molecules and fine-tune them using reinforcement learning on specific objectives. However, string-based models face challenges in ensuring chemical validity and enforcing structural constraints like the presence of specific substructures. We propose to instead combine graph-based molecular representations, which can naturally ensure chemical validity, with transformer architectures, which are highly expressive and capable of modeling long-range dependencies between atoms. Our approach iteratively modifies a molecular graph by adding atoms and bonds, which ensures chemical validity and facilitates the incorporation of structural constraints. We present GraphXForm, a decoder-only graph transformer architecture, which is pretrained on existing compounds and then fine-tuned using a new training algorithm that combines elements of the deep cross-entropy method and self-improvement learning. We evaluate GraphXForm on various drug design tasks, demonstrating superior objective scores compared to state-of-the-art molecular design approaches. Furthermore, we apply GraphXForm to two solvent design tasks for liquid-liquid extraction, again outperforming alternative methods while flexibly enforcing structural constraints or initiating design from existing molecular structures.





## IPO: Your Language Model is Secretly a Preference Classifier
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.16182v2
- **Authors**: ['Shivank Garg', 'Ayush Singh', 'Shweta Singh', 'Paras Chopra']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) has emerged as the primary method for aligning large language models (LLMs) with human preferences. While it enables LLMs to achieve human-level alignment, it often incurs significant computational and financial costs due to its reliance on training external reward models or human-labeled preferences. In this work, we propose Implicit Preference Optimization (IPO), an alternative approach that leverages generative LLMs as preference classifiers, thereby reducing the dependence on external human feedback or reward models to obtain preferences. We conduct a comprehensive evaluation on the preference classification ability of LLMs using RewardBench, assessing models across different sizes, architectures, and training levels to validate our hypothesis. Furthermore, we investigate the self-improvement capabilities of LLMs by generating multiple responses for a given instruction and employing the model itself as a preference classifier for Direct Preference Optimization (DPO)-based training. Our findings demonstrate that models trained through IPO achieve performance comparable to those utilizing state-of-the-art reward models for obtaining preferences.





## A policy gradient approach for Finite Horizon Constrained Markov Decision Processes
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2210.04527v5
- **Authors**: ['Soumyajit Guin', 'Shalabh Bhatnagar']
- **Abstrat**: The infinite horizon setting is widely adopted for problems of reinforcement learning (RL). These invariably result in stationary policies that are optimal. In many situations, finite horizon control problems are of interest and for such problems, the optimal policies are time-varying in general. Another setting that has become popular in recent times is of Constrained Reinforcement Learning, where the agent maximizes its rewards while it also aims to satisfy some given constraint criteria. However, this setting has only been studied in the context of infinite horizon MDPs where stationary policies are optimal. We present an algorithm for constrained RL in the Finite Horizon Setting where the horizon terminates after a fixed (finite) time. We use function approximation in our algorithm which is essential when the state and action spaces are large or continuous and use the policy gradient method to find the optimal policy. The optimal policy that we obtain depends on the stage and so is non-stationary in general. To the best of our knowledge, our paper presents the first policy gradient algorithm for the finite horizon setting with constraints. We show the convergence of our algorithm to a constrained optimal policy. We also compare and analyze the performance of our algorithm through experiments and show that our algorithm performs better than some other well known algorithms.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Jointly Understand Your Command and Intention:Reciprocal Co-Evolution between Scene-Aware 3D Human Motion Synthesis and Analysis
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.00371v3
- **Authors**: ['Xuehao Gao', 'Yang Yang', 'Shaoyi Du', 'Guo-Jun Qi', 'Junwei Han']
- **Abstrat**: As two intimate reciprocal tasks, scene-aware human motion synthesis and analysis require a joint understanding between multiple modalities, including 3D body motions, 3D scenes, and textual descriptions. In this paper, we integrate these two paired processes into a Co-Evolving Synthesis-Analysis (CESA) pipeline and mutually benefit their learning. Specifically, scene-aware text-to-human synthesis generates diverse indoor motion samples from the same textual description to enrich human-scene interaction intra-class diversity, thus significantly benefiting training a robust human motion analysis system. Reciprocally, human motion analysis would enforce semantic scrutiny on each synthesized motion sample to ensure its semantic consistency with the given textual description, thus improving realistic motion synthesis. Considering that real-world indoor human motions are goal-oriented and path-guided, we propose a cascaded generation strategy that factorizes text-driven scene-specific human motion generation into three stages: goal inferring, path planning, and pose synthesizing. Coupling CESA with this powerful cascaded motion synthesis model, we jointly improve realistic human motion synthesis and robust human motion analysis in 3D scenes.




