# reinforcement learning
## SafeSwarm: Decentralized Safe RL for the Swarm of Drones Landing in Dense Crowds
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07566v1
- **Authors**: ['Grik Tadevosyan', 'Maksim Osipenko', 'Demetros Aschu', 'Aleksey Fedoseev', 'Valerii Serpiva', 'Oleg Sautenkov', 'Sausar Karaf', 'Dzmitry Tsetserukou']
- **Abstrat**: This paper introduces a safe swarm of drones capable of performing landings in crowded environments robustly by relying on Reinforcement Learning techniques combined with Safe Learning. The developed system allows us to teach the swarm of drones with different dynamics to land on moving landing pads in an environment while avoiding collisions with obstacles and between agents.   The safe barrier net algorithm was developed and evaluated using a swarm of Crazyflie 2.1 micro quadrotors, which were tested indoors with the Vicon motion capture system to ensure precise localization and control.   Experimental results show that our system achieves landing accuracy of 2.25 cm with a mean time of 17 s and collision-free landings, underscoring its effectiveness and robustness in real-world scenarios. This work offers a promising foundation for applications in environments where safety and precision are paramount.





## Improving DeFi Accessibility through Efficient Liquidity Provisioning with Deep Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07508v1
- **Authors**: ['Haonan Xu', 'Alessio Brini']
- **Abstrat**: This paper applies deep reinforcement learning (DRL) to optimize liquidity provisioning in Uniswap v3, a decentralized finance (DeFi) protocol implementing an automated market maker (AMM) model with concentrated liquidity. We model the liquidity provision task as a Markov Decision Process (MDP) and train an active liquidity provider (LP) agent using the Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) algorithm. The agent dynamically adjusts liquidity positions by using information about price dynamics to balance fee maximization and impermanent loss mitigation. We use a rolling window approach for training and testing, reflecting realistic market conditions and regime shifts. This study compares the data-driven performance of the DRL-based strategy against common heuristics adopted by small retail LP actors that do not systematically modify their liquidity positions. By promoting more efficient liquidity management, this work aims to make DeFi markets more accessible and inclusive for a broader range of participants. Through a data-driven approach to liquidity management, this work seeks to contribute to the ongoing development of more efficient and user-friendly DeFi markets.





## RbRL2.0: Integrated Reward and Policy Learning for Rating-based Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07502v1
- **Authors**: ['Mingkang Wu', 'Devin White', 'Vernon Lawhern', 'Nicholas R. Waytowich', 'Yongcan Cao']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning (RL), a common tool in decision making, learns policies from various experiences based on the associated cumulative return/rewards without treating them differently. On the contrary, humans often learn to distinguish from different levels of performance and extract the underlying trends towards improving their decision making for best performance. Motivated by this, this paper proposes a novel RL method that mimics humans' decision making process by differentiating among collected experiences for effective policy learning. The main idea is to extract important directional information from experiences with different performance levels, named ratings, so that policies can be updated towards desired deviation from these experiences with different ratings. Specifically, we propose a new policy loss function that penalizes distribution similarities between the current policy and failed experiences with different ratings, and assign different weights to the penalty terms based on the rating classes. Meanwhile, reward learning from these rated samples can be integrated with the new policy loss towards an integrated reward and policy learning from rated samples. Optimizing the integrated reward and policy loss function will lead to the discovery of directions for policy improvement towards maximizing cumulative rewards and penalizing most from the lowest performance level while least from the highest performance level. To evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed method, we present results for experiments on a few typical environments that show improved convergence and overall performance over the existing rating-based reinforcement learning method with only reward learning.





## Online inductive learning from answer sets for efficient reinforcement learning exploration
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07445v1
- **Authors**: ['Celeste Veronese', 'Daniele Meli', 'Alessandro Farinelli']
- **Abstrat**: This paper presents a novel approach combining inductive logic programming with reinforcement learning to improve training performance and explainability. We exploit inductive learning of answer set programs from noisy examples to learn a set of logical rules representing an explainable approximation of the agent policy at each batch of experience. We then perform answer set reasoning on the learned rules to guide the exploration of the learning agent at the next batch, without requiring inefficient reward shaping and preserving optimality with soft bias. The entire procedure is conducted during the online execution of the reinforcement learning algorithm. We preliminarily validate the efficacy of our approach by integrating it into the Q-learning algorithm for the Pac-Man scenario in two maps of increasing complexity. Our methodology produces a significant boost in the discounted return achieved by the agent, even in the first batches of training. Moreover, inductive learning does not compromise the computational time required by Q-learning and learned rules quickly converge to an explanation of the agent policy.





## Attention when you need
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07440v1
- **Authors**: ['Lokesh Boominathan', 'Yizhou Chen', 'Matthew McGinley', 'Xaq Pitkow']
- **Abstrat**: Being attentive to task-relevant features can improve task performance, but paying attention comes with its own metabolic cost. Therefore, strategic allocation of attention is crucial in performing the task efficiently. This work aims to understand this strategy. Recently, de Gee et al. conducted experiments involving mice performing an auditory sustained attention-value task. This task required the mice to exert attention to identify whether a high-order acoustic feature was present amid the noise. By varying the trial duration and reward magnitude, the task allows us to investigate how an agent should strategically deploy their attention to maximize their benefits and minimize their costs. In our work, we develop a reinforcement learning-based normative model of the mice to understand how it balances attention cost against its benefits. The model is such that at each moment the mice can choose between two levels of attention and decide when to take costly actions that could obtain rewards. Our model suggests that efficient use of attentional resources involves alternating blocks of high attention with blocks of low attention. In the extreme case where the agent disregards sensory input during low attention states, we see that high attention is used rhythmically. Our model provides evidence about how one should deploy attention as a function of task utility, signal statistics, and how attention affects sensory evidence.





## Towards an Information Theoretic Framework of Context-Based Offline Meta-Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.02429v3
- **Authors**: ['Lanqing Li', 'Hai Zhang', 'Xinyu Zhang', 'Shatong Zhu', 'Yang Yu', 'Junqiao Zhao', 'Pheng-Ann Heng']
- **Abstrat**: As a marriage between offline RL and meta-RL, the advent of offline meta-reinforcement learning (OMRL) has shown great promise in enabling RL agents to multi-task and quickly adapt while acquiring knowledge safely. Among which, context-based OMRL (COMRL) as a popular paradigm, aims to learn a universal policy conditioned on effective task representations. In this work, by examining several key milestones in the field of COMRL, we propose to integrate these seemingly independent methodologies into a unified framework. Most importantly, we show that the pre-existing COMRL algorithms are essentially optimizing the same mutual information objective between the task variable $M$ and its latent representation $Z$ by implementing various approximate bounds. Such theoretical insight offers ample design freedom for novel algorithms. As demonstrations, we propose a supervised and a self-supervised implementation of $I(Z; M)$, and empirically show that the corresponding optimization algorithms exhibit remarkable generalization across a broad spectrum of RL benchmarks, context shift scenarios, data qualities and deep learning architectures. This work lays the information theoretic foundation for COMRL methods, leading to a better understanding of task representation learning in the context of reinforcement learning. Given its generality, we envision our framework as a promising offline pre-training paradigm of foundation models for decision making.





## QuadWBG: Generalizable Quadrupedal Whole-Body Grasping
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.06782v2
- **Authors**: ['Jilong Wang', 'Javokhirbek Rajabov', 'Chaoyi Xu', 'Yiming Zheng', 'He Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Legged robots with advanced manipulation capabilities have the potential to significantly improve household duties and urban maintenance. Despite considerable progress in developing robust locomotion and precise manipulation methods, seamlessly integrating these into cohesive whole-body control for real-world applications remains challenging. In this paper, we present a modular framework for robust and generalizable whole-body loco-manipulation controller based on a single arm-mounted camera. By using reinforcement learning (RL), we enable a robust low-level policy for command execution over 5 dimensions (5D) and a grasp-aware high-level policy guided by a novel metric, Generalized Oriented Reachability Map (GORM). The proposed system achieves state-of-the-art one-time grasping accuracy of 89% in the real world, including challenging tasks such as grasping transparent objects. Through extensive simulations and real-world experiments, we demonstrate that our system can effectively manage a large workspace, from floor level to above body height, and perform diverse whole-body loco-manipulation tasks.





## Enhancing Online Reinforcement Learning with Meta-Learned Objective from Offline Data
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07346v1
- **Authors**: ['Shilong Deng', 'Zetao Zheng', 'Hongcai He', 'Paul Weng', 'Jie Shao']
- **Abstrat**: A major challenge in Reinforcement Learning (RL) is the difficulty of learning an optimal policy from sparse rewards. Prior works enhance online RL with conventional Imitation Learning (IL) via a handcrafted auxiliary objective, at the cost of restricting the RL policy to be sub-optimal when the offline data is generated by a non-expert policy. Instead, to better leverage valuable information in offline data, we develop Generalized Imitation Learning from Demonstration (GILD), which meta-learns an objective that distills knowledge from offline data and instills intrinsic motivation towards the optimal policy. Distinct from prior works that are exclusive to a specific RL algorithm, GILD is a flexible module intended for diverse vanilla off-policy RL algorithms. In addition, GILD introduces no domain-specific hyperparameter and minimal increase in computational cost. In four challenging MuJoCo tasks with sparse rewards, we show that three RL algorithms enhanced with GILD significantly outperform state-of-the-art methods.





## Foundation Models at Work: Fine-Tuning for Fairness in Algorithmic Hiring
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07324v1
- **Authors**: ['Buse Sibel Korkmaz', 'Rahul Nair', 'Elizabeth M. Daly', 'Evangelos Anagnostopoulos', 'Christos Varytimidis', 'Antonio del Rio Chanona']
- **Abstrat**: Foundation models require fine-tuning to ensure their generative outputs align with intended results for specific tasks. Automating this fine-tuning process is challenging, as it typically needs human feedback that can be expensive to acquire. We present AutoRefine, a method that leverages reinforcement learning for targeted fine-tuning, utilizing direct feedback from measurable performance improvements in specific downstream tasks. We demonstrate the method for a problem arising in algorithmic hiring platforms where linguistic biases influence a recommendation system. In this setting, a generative model seeks to rewrite given job specifications to receive more diverse candidate matches from a recommendation engine which matches jobs to candidates. Our model detects and regulates biases in job descriptions to meet diversity and fairness criteria. The experiments on a public hiring dataset and a real-world hiring platform showcase how large language models can assist in identifying and mitigation biases in the real world.





## Future-Conditioned Recommendations with Multi-Objective Controllable Decision Transformer
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07212v1
- **Authors**: ['Chongming Gao', 'Kexin Huang', 'Ziang Fei', 'Jiaju Chen', 'Jiawei Chen', 'Jianshan Sun', 'Shuchang Liu', 'Qingpeng Cai', 'Peng Jiang']
- **Abstrat**: Securing long-term success is the ultimate aim of recommender systems, demanding strategies capable of foreseeing and shaping the impact of decisions on future user satisfaction. Current recommendation strategies grapple with two significant hurdles. Firstly, the future impacts of recommendation decisions remain obscured, rendering it impractical to evaluate them through direct optimization of immediate metrics. Secondly, conflicts often emerge between multiple objectives, like enhancing accuracy versus exploring diverse recommendations. Existing strategies, trapped in a "training, evaluation, and retraining" loop, grow more labor-intensive as objectives evolve. To address these challenges, we introduce a future-conditioned strategy for multi-objective controllable recommendations, allowing for the direct specification of future objectives and empowering the model to generate item sequences that align with these goals autoregressively. We present the Multi-Objective Controllable Decision Transformer (MocDT), an offline Reinforcement Learning (RL) model capable of autonomously learning the mapping from multiple objectives to item sequences, leveraging extensive offline data. Consequently, it can produce recommendations tailored to any specified objectives during the inference stage. Our empirical findings emphasize the controllable recommendation strategy's ability to produce item sequences according to different objectives while maintaining performance that is competitive with current recommendation strategies across various objectives.





## Amortizing intractable inference in diffusion models for vision, language, and control
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.20971v2
- **Authors**: ['Siddarth Venkatraman', 'Moksh Jain', 'Luca Scimeca', 'Minsu Kim', 'Marcin Sendera', 'Mohsin Hasan', 'Luke Rowe', 'Sarthak Mittal', 'Pablo Lemos', 'Emmanuel Bengio', 'Alexandre Adam', 'Jarrid Rector-Brooks', 'Yoshua Bengio', 'Glen Berseth', 'Nikolay Malkin']
- **Abstrat**: Diffusion models have emerged as effective distribution estimators in vision, language, and reinforcement learning, but their use as priors in downstream tasks poses an intractable posterior inference problem. This paper studies amortized sampling of the posterior over data, $\mathbf{x}\sim p^{\rm post}(\mathbf{x})\propto p(\mathbf{x})r(\mathbf{x})$, in a model that consists of a diffusion generative model prior $p(\mathbf{x})$ and a black-box constraint or likelihood function $r(\mathbf{x})$. We state and prove the asymptotic correctness of a data-free learning objective, relative trajectory balance, for training a diffusion model that samples from this posterior, a problem that existing methods solve only approximately or in restricted cases. Relative trajectory balance arises from the generative flow network perspective on diffusion models, which allows the use of deep reinforcement learning techniques to improve mode coverage. Experiments illustrate the broad potential of unbiased inference of arbitrary posteriors under diffusion priors: in vision (classifier guidance), language (infilling under a discrete diffusion LLM), and multimodal data (text-to-image generation). Beyond generative modeling, we apply relative trajectory balance to the problem of continuous control with a score-based behavior prior, achieving state-of-the-art results on benchmarks in offline reinforcement learning.





## Optimally Solving Simultaneous-Move Dec-POMDPs: The Sequential Central Planning Approach
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.13139v3
- **Authors**: ['Johan Peralez', 'Aurèlien Delage', 'Jacopo Castellini', 'Rafael F. Cunha', 'Jilles S. Dibangoye']
- **Abstrat**: The centralized training for decentralized execution paradigm emerged as the state-of-the-art approach to $\epsilon$-optimally solving decentralized partially observable Markov decision processes. However, scalability remains a significant issue. This paper presents a novel and more scalable alternative, namely the sequential-move centralized training for decentralized execution. This paradigm further pushes the applicability of the Bellman's principle of optimality, raising three new properties. First, it allows a central planner to reason upon sufficient sequential-move statistics instead of prior simultaneous-move ones. Next, it proves that $\epsilon$-optimal value functions are piecewise linear and convex in such sufficient sequential-move statistics. Finally, it drops the complexity of the backup operators from double exponential to polynomial at the expense of longer planning horizons. Besides, it makes it easy to use single-agent methods, e.g., SARSA algorithm enhanced with these findings, while still preserving convergence guarantees. Experiments on two- as well as many-agent domains from the literature against $\epsilon$-optimal simultaneous-move solvers confirm the superiority of our novel approach. This paradigm opens the door for efficient planning and reinforcement learning methods for multi-agent systems.





## TIMRL: A Novel Meta-Reinforcement Learning Framework for Non-Stationary and Multi-Task Environments
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07146v1
- **Authors**: ['Chenyang Qi', 'Huiping Li', 'Panfeng Huang']
- **Abstrat**: In recent years, meta-reinforcement learning (meta-RL) algorithm has been proposed to improve sample efficiency in the field of decision-making and control, enabling agents to learn new knowledge from a small number of samples. However, most research uses the Gaussian distribution to extract task representation, which is poorly adapted to tasks that change in non-stationary environment. To address this problem, we propose a novel meta-reinforcement learning method by leveraging Gaussian mixture model and the transformer network to construct task inference model. The Gaussian mixture model is utilized to extend the task representation and conduct explicit encoding of tasks. Specifically, the classification of tasks is encoded through transformer network to determine the Gaussian component corresponding to the task. By leveraging task labels, the transformer network is trained using supervised learning. We validate our method on MuJoCo benchmarks with non-stationary and multi-task environments. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method dramatically improves sample efficiency and accurately recognizes the classification of the tasks, while performing excellently in the environment.





## A Federated Deep Learning Framework for Cell-Free RSMA Networks
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07126v1
- **Authors**: ['S. Ali Mousavi', 'Mehdi Monemi', 'Reza Mohseni', 'Matti Latva-aho']
- **Abstrat**: Next-generation wireless networks are poised to benefit significantly from the integration of three key technologies (KTs): Rate-Splitting Multiple Access (RSMA), cell-free architectures, and federated learning. Each of these technologies offers distinct advantages in terms of security, robustness, and distributed structure. In this paper, we propose a novel cell-free network architecture that incorporates RSMA and employs machine learning techniques within a federated framework. This combination leverages the strengths of each KT, creating a synergistic effect that maximizes the benefits of security, robustness, and distributed structure. We formally formulate the access point (AP) selection and precoder design for max-min rate optimization in a cell-free MIMO RSMA network. Our proposed solution scheme involves a three-block procedure. The first block trains deep reinforcement learning (DRL) neural networks to obtain RSMA precoders, assuming full connectivity between APs and user equipments (UEs). The second block uses these precoders and principal component analysis (PCA) to assign APs to UEs by removing a subset of AP-UE connections. The final block fine-tunes the RSMA precoders by incorporating the associated APs into a second DRL network. To leverage the distributed nature of the cell-free network, this process is implemented in a Federated Deep Reinforcement Learning (FDRL) structure operating through the cooperation of APs and a central processing unit (CPU). Simulation results demonstrate that the proposed FDRL approach performs comparably to a benchmark centralized DRL scheme. Our FDRL approach, provides a balanced trade-off, maintaining high performance with enhanced security and reduced processing demands.





## Bitcoin Under Volatile Block Rewards: How Mempool Statistics Can Influence Bitcoin Mining
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11702v2
- **Authors**: ['Roozbeh Sarenche', 'Alireza Aghabagherloo', 'Svetla Nikova', 'Bart Preneel']
- **Abstrat**: The security of Bitcoin protocols is deeply dependent on the incentives provided to miners, which come from a combination of block rewards and transaction fees. As Bitcoin experiences more halving events, the protocol reward converges to zero, making transaction fees the primary source of miner rewards. This shift in Bitcoin's incentivization mechanism, which introduces volatility into block rewards, leads to the emergence of new security threats or intensifies existing ones. Previous security analyses of Bitcoin have either considered a fixed block reward model or a highly simplified volatile model, overlooking the complexities of Bitcoin's mempool behavior.   This paper presents a reinforcement learning-based tool to develop mining strategies under a more realistic volatile model. We employ the Asynchronous Advantage Actor-Critic (A3C) algorithm, which efficiently handles dynamic environments, such as the Bitcoin mempool, to derive near-optimal mining strategies when interacting with an environment that models the complexity of the Bitcoin mempool. This tool enables the analysis of adversarial mining strategies, such as selfish mining and undercutting, both before and after difficulty adjustments, providing insights into the effects of mining attacks in both the short and long term.   We revisit the Bitcoin security threshold presented in the WeRLman paper and demonstrate that the implicit predictability of valuable transaction arrivals in this model leads to an underestimation of the reported threshold. Additionally, we show that, while adversarial strategies like selfish mining under the fixed reward model incur an initial loss period of at least two weeks, the transition toward a transaction-fee era incentivizes mining pools to abandon honest mining for immediate profits. This incentive is expected to become more significant as the protocol reward approaches zero in the future.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Path Loss Prediction Using Deep Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17752v2
- **Authors**: ['Ryan G. Dempsey', 'Jonathan Ethier', 'Halim Yanikomeroglu']
- **Abstrat**: Radio deployments and spectrum planning benefit from path loss predictions. Obstructions along a communications link are often considered implicitly or through derived metrics such as representative clutter height or total obstruction depth. In this paper, we propose a path-specific path loss prediction method that uses convolutional neural networks to automatically perform feature extraction from high-resolution obstruction height maps. Our methods result in low prediction error in a variety of environments without requiring derived metrics.





## Fast-Revisit Coverage Path Planning for Autonomous Mobile Patrol Robots Using Long-Range Sensor Information
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07343v1
- **Authors**: ['Srinivas Kachavarapu', 'Tobias Doernbach', 'Reinhard Gerndt']
- **Abstrat**: The utilization of Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGVs) for patrolling industrial sites has expanded significantly. These UGVs typically are equipped with perception systems, e.g., computer vision, with limited range due to sensor limitations or site topology. High-level control of the UGVs requires Coverage Path Planning (CPP) algorithms that navigate all relevant waypoints and promptly start the next cycle. In this paper, we propose the novel Fast-Revisit Coverage Path Planning (FaRe-CPP) algorithm using a greedy heuristic approach to propose waypoints for maximum coverage area and a random search-based path optimization technique to obtain a path along the proposed waypoints with minimum revisit time. We evaluated the algorithm in a simulated environment using Gazebo and a camera-equipped TurtleBot3 against a number of existing algorithms. Compared to their average revisit times and path lengths, our FaRe-CPP algorithm approximately showed a 45% and 40% reduction, respectively, in these highly relevant performance indicators.




