# reinforcement learning
## GUI-Bee: Align GUI Action Grounding to Novel Environments via Autonomous Exploration
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.13896v2
- **Authors**: ['Yue Fan', 'Handong Zhao', 'Ruiyi Zhang', 'Yu Shen', 'Xin Eric Wang', 'Gang Wu']
- **Abstrat**: Graphical User Interface (GUI) action grounding is a critical step in GUI automation that maps language instructions to actionable elements on GUI screens. Most recent works of GUI action grounding leverage large GUI datasets to fine-tune MLLMs. However, the fine-tuning data always covers limited GUI environments, and we find the performance of the resulting model deteriorates in novel environments. We argue that the GUI grounding models should be further aligned to the novel environments to reveal their full potential, when the inference is known to involve novel environments, i.e., environments not used during the previous fine-tuning. To realize this, we first propose GUI-Bee, an MLLM-based autonomous agent, to collect high-quality, environment-specific data through exploration and then continuously fine-tune GUI grounding models with the collected data. Our agent leverages a novel Q-value-Incentive In-Context Reinforcement Learning (Q-ICRL) method to optimize exploration efficiency and data quality. Additionally, we introduce NovelScreenSpot, a benchmark for testing how well the data can help align GUI action grounding models to novel environments and demonstrate the effectiveness of data collected by GUI-Bee in the experiments. Furthermore, we conduct an ablation study to validate the Q-ICRL method in enhancing the efficiency of GUI-Bee. Project page: https://gui-bee.github.io





## Upside Down Reinforcement Learning with Policy Generators
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.16288v1
- **Authors**: ['Jacopo Di Ventura', 'Dylan R. Ashley', 'Francesco Faccio', 'Vincent Herrmann', 'Jürgen Schmidhuber']
- **Abstrat**: Upside Down Reinforcement Learning (UDRL) is a promising framework for solving reinforcement learning problems which focuses on learning command-conditioned policies. In this work, we extend UDRL to the task of learning a command-conditioned generator of deep neural network policies. We accomplish this using Hypernetworks - a variant of Fast Weight Programmers, which learn to decode input commands representing a desired expected return into command-specific weight matrices. Our method, dubbed Upside Down Reinforcement Learning with Policy Generators (UDRLPG), streamlines comparable techniques by removing the need for an evaluator or critic to update the weights of the generator. To counteract the increased variance in last returns caused by not having an evaluator, we decouple the sampling probability of the buffer from the absolute number of policies in it, which, together with a simple weighting strategy, improves the empirical convergence of the algorithm. Compared with existing algorithms, UDRLPG achieves competitive performance and high returns, sometimes outperforming more complex architectures. Our experiments show that a trained generator can generalize to create policies that achieve unseen returns zero-shot. The proposed method appears to be effective in mitigating some of the challenges associated with learning highly multimodal functions. Altogether, we believe that UDRLPG represents a promising step forward in achieving greater empirical sample efficiency in RL. A full implementation of UDRLPG is publicly available at https://github.com/JacopoD/udrlpg_





## Accelerating Quantum Reinforcement Learning with a Quantum Natural Policy Gradient Based Approach
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.16243v1
- **Authors**: ['Yang Xu', 'Vaneet Aggarwal']
- **Abstrat**: We address the problem of quantum reinforcement learning (QRL) under model-free settings with quantum oracle access to the Markov Decision Process (MDP). This paper introduces a Quantum Natural Policy Gradient (QNPG) algorithm, which replaces the random sampling used in classical Natural Policy Gradient (NPG) estimators with a deterministic gradient estimation approach, enabling seamless integration into quantum systems. While this modification introduces a bounded bias in the estimator, the bias decays exponentially with increasing truncation levels. This paper demonstrates that the proposed QNPG algorithm achieves a sample complexity of $\tilde{\mathcal{O}}(\epsilon^{-1.5})$ for queries to the quantum oracle, significantly improving the classical lower bound of $\tilde{\mathcal{O}}(\epsilon^{-2})$ for queries to the MDP.





## Towards General-Purpose Model-Free Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.16142v1
- **Authors**: ['Scott Fujimoto', "Pierluca D'Oro", 'Amy Zhang', 'Yuandong Tian', 'Michael Rabbat']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning (RL) promises a framework for near-universal problem-solving. In practice however, RL algorithms are often tailored to specific benchmarks, relying on carefully tuned hyperparameters and algorithmic choices. Recently, powerful model-based RL methods have shown impressive general results across benchmarks but come at the cost of increased complexity and slow run times, limiting their broader applicability. In this paper, we attempt to find a unifying model-free deep RL algorithm that can address a diverse class of domains and problem settings. To achieve this, we leverage model-based representations that approximately linearize the value function, taking advantage of the denser task objectives used by model-based RL while avoiding the costs associated with planning or simulated trajectories. We evaluate our algorithm, MR.Q, on a variety of common RL benchmarks with a single set of hyperparameters and show a competitive performance against domain-specific and general baselines, providing a concrete step towards building general-purpose model-free deep RL algorithms.





## Quantifying the Self-Interest Level of Markov Social Dilemmas
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.16138v1
- **Authors**: ['Richard Willis', 'Yali Du', 'Joel Z Leibo', 'Michael Luck']
- **Abstrat**: This paper introduces a novel method for estimating the self-interest level of computationally intractable Markov social dilemmas. We extend the concept of self-interest level from normal-form games to Markov games, providing a quantitative measure of the minimum reward exchange required to incentivize cooperation by aligning individual and collective interests. We demonstrate our method on three environments from the Melting Pot suite: which represent either common-pool resources or public goods. Our results show that the proposed method successfully identifies a threshold at which learning agents transition from selfish to cooperative equilibria in a Markov social dilemma. This work contributes to the fields of Cooperative AI and multiagent reinforcement learning by providing a practical tool for analysing complex, multistep social dilemmas. Our findings offer insights into how reward structures can promote or hinger cooperation in challenging multiagent scenarios, with potential applications in areas such as mechanism design.





## ReFill: Reinforcement Learning for Fill-In Minimization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.16130v1
- **Authors**: ['Elfarouk Harb', 'Ho Shan Lam']
- **Abstrat**: Efficiently solving sparse linear systems $Ax=b$, where $A$ is a large, sparse, symmetric positive semi-definite matrix, is a core challenge in scientific computing, machine learning, and optimization. A major bottleneck in Gaussian elimination for these systems is fill-in, the creation of non-zero entries that increase memory and computational cost. Minimizing fill-in is NP-hard, and existing heuristics like Minimum Degree and Nested Dissection offer limited adaptability across diverse problem instances.   We introduce \textit{ReFill}, a reinforcement learning framework enhanced by Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) to learn adaptive ordering strategies for fill-in minimization. ReFill trains a GNN-based heuristic to predict efficient elimination orders, outperforming traditional heuristics by dynamically adapting to the structure of input matrices. Experiments demonstrate that ReFill outperforms strong heuristics in reducing fill-in, highlighting the untapped potential of learning-based methods for this well-studied classical problem.





## Multi-Agent Meta-Offline Reinforcement Learning for Timely UAV Path Planning and Data Collection
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.16098v1
- **Authors**: ['Eslam Eldeeb', 'Hirley Alves']
- **Abstrat**: Multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) has been widely adopted in high-performance computing and complex data-driven decision-making in the wireless domain. However, conventional MARL schemes face many obstacles in real-world scenarios. First, most MARL algorithms are online, which might be unsafe and impractical. Second, MARL algorithms are environment-specific, meaning network configuration changes require model retraining. This letter proposes a novel meta-offline MARL algorithm that combines conservative Q-learning (CQL) and model agnostic meta-learning (MAML). CQL enables offline training by leveraging pre-collected datasets, while MAML ensures scalability and adaptability to dynamic network configurations and objectives. We propose two algorithm variants: independent training (M-I-MARL) and centralized training decentralized execution (M-CTDE-MARL). Simulation results show that the proposed algorithm outperforms conventional schemes, especially the CTDE approach that achieves 50 % faster convergence in dynamic scenarios than the benchmarks. The proposed framework enhances scalability, robustness, and adaptability in wireless communication systems by optimizing UAV trajectories and scheduling policies.





## Hybrid discrete-continuous compilation of trapped-ion quantum circuits with deep reinforcement learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2307.05744v3
- **Authors**: ['Francesco Preti', 'Michael Schilling', 'Sofiene Jerbi', 'Lea M. Trenkwalder', 'Hendrik Poulsen Nautrup', 'Felix Motzoi', 'Hans J. Briegel']
- **Abstrat**: Shortening quantum circuits is crucial to reducing the destructive effect of environmental decoherence and enabling useful algorithms. Here, we demonstrate an improvement in such compilation tasks via a combination of using hybrid discrete-continuous optimization across a continuous gate set, and architecture-tailored implementation. The continuous parameters are discovered with a gradient-based optimization algorithm, while in tandem the optimal gate orderings are learned via a deep reinforcement learning algorithm, based on projective simulation. To test this approach, we introduce a framework to simulate collective gates in trapped-ion systems efficiently on a classical device. The algorithm proves able to significantly reduce the size of relevant quantum circuits for trapped-ion computing. Furthermore, we show that our framework can also be applied to an experimental setup whose goal is to reproduce an unknown unitary process.





## WebRL: Training LLM Web Agents via Self-Evolving Online Curriculum Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02337v3
- **Authors**: ['Zehan Qi', 'Xiao Liu', 'Iat Long Iong', 'Hanyu Lai', 'Xueqiao Sun', 'Wenyi Zhao', 'Yu Yang', 'Xinyue Yang', 'Jiadai Sun', 'Shuntian Yao', 'Tianjie Zhang', 'Wei Xu', 'Jie Tang', 'Yuxiao Dong']
- **Abstrat**: Large language models (LLMs) have shown remarkable potential as autonomous agents, particularly in web-based tasks. However, existing LLM web agents heavily rely on expensive proprietary LLM APIs, while open LLMs lack the necessary decision-making capabilities. This paper introduces WebRL, a self-evolving online curriculum reinforcement learning framework designed to train high-performance web agents using open LLMs. WebRL addresses three key challenges in building LLM web agents, including the scarcity of training tasks, sparse feedback signals, and policy distribution drift in online learning. Specifically, WebRL incorporates 1) a self-evolving curriculum that generates new tasks from unsuccessful attempts, 2) a robust outcome-supervised reward model (ORM), and 3) adaptive reinforcement learning strategies to ensure consistent improvements. We apply WebRL to transform open Llama-3.1 and GLM-4 models into proficient web agents. On WebArena-Lite, WebRL improves the success rate of Llama-3.1-8B from 4.8% to 42.4%, and from 6.1% to 43% for GLM-4-9B. These open models significantly surpass the performance of GPT-4-Turbo (17.6%) and GPT-4o (13.9%) and outperform previous state-of-the-art web agents trained on open LLMs (AutoWebGLM, 18.2%). Our findings demonstrate WebRL's effectiveness in bridging the gap between open and proprietary LLM-based web agents, paving the way for more accessible and powerful autonomous web interaction systems.





## Flexible Blood Glucose Control: Offline Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.15972v1
- **Authors**: ['Harry Emerson', 'Sam Gordon James', 'Matthew Guy', 'Ryan McConville']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning (RL) has demonstrated success in automating insulin dosing in simulated type 1 diabetes (T1D) patients but is currently unable to incorporate patient expertise and preference. This work introduces PAINT (Preference Adaptation for INsulin control in T1D), an original RL framework for learning flexible insulin dosing policies from patient records. PAINT employs a sketch-based approach for reward learning, where past data is annotated with a continuous reward signal to reflect patient's desired outcomes. Labelled data trains a reward model, informing the actions of a novel safety-constrained offline RL algorithm, designed to restrict actions to a safe strategy and enable preference tuning via a sliding scale. In-silico evaluation shows PAINT achieves common glucose goals through simple labelling of desired states, reducing glycaemic risk by 15% over a commercial benchmark. Action labelling can also be used to incorporate patient expertise, demonstrating an ability to pre-empt meals (+10% time-in-range post-meal) and address certain device errors (-1.6% variance post-error) with patient guidance. These results hold under realistic conditions, including limited samples, labelling errors, and intra-patient variability. This work illustrates PAINT's potential in real-world T1D management and more broadly any tasks requiring rapid and precise preference learning under safety constraints.





## REINFORCE-ING Chemical Language Models in Drug Design
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.15971v1
- **Authors**: ['Morgan Thomas', 'Albert Bou', 'Gianni De Fabritiis']
- **Abstrat**: Chemical language models, combined with reinforcement learning, have shown significant promise to efficiently traverse large chemical spaces in drug design. However, the performance of various RL algorithms and their best practices for practical drug design are still unclear. Here, starting from the principles of the REINFORCE algorithm, we investigate the effect of different components from RL theory including experience replay, hill-climbing, baselines to reduce variance, and alternative reward shaping. Additionally we demonstrate how RL hyperparameters can be fine-tuned for effectiveness, efficiency, or chemical regularization as demonstrated using the MolOpt benchmark.





## Inverse Reinforcement Learning via Convex Optimization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.15957v1
- **Authors**: ['Hao Zhu', 'Yuan Zhang', 'Joschka Boedecker']
- **Abstrat**: We consider the inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) problem, where an unknown reward function of some Markov decision process is estimated based on observed expert demonstrations. In most existing approaches, IRL is formulated and solved as a nonconvex optimization problem, posing challenges in scenarios where robustness and reproducibility are critical. We discuss a convex formulation of the IRL problem (CIRL) initially proposed by Ng and Russel, and reformulate the problem such that the domain-specific language CVXPY can be applied directly to specify and solve the convex problem. We also extend the CIRL problem to scenarios where the expert policy is not given analytically but by trajectory as state-action pairs, which can be strongly inconsistent with optimality, by augmenting some of the constraints. Theoretical analysis and practical implementation for hyperparameter auto-selection are introduced. This note helps the users to easily apply CIRL for their problems, without background knowledge on convex optimization.





## Experience-replay Innovative Dynamics
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.12199v2
- **Authors**: ['Tuo Zhang', 'Leonardo Stella', 'Julian Barreiro-Gomez']
- **Abstrat**: Despite its groundbreaking success, multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) still suffers from instability and nonstationarity. Replicator dynamics, the most well-known model from evolutionary game theory (EGT), provide a theoretical framework for the convergence of the trajectories to Nash equilibria and, as a result, have been used to ensure formal guarantees for MARL algorithms in stable game settings. However, they exhibit the opposite behavior in other settings, which poses the problem of finding alternatives to ensure convergence. In contrast, innovative dynamics, such as the Brown-von Neumann-Nash (BNN) or Smith, result in periodic trajectories with the potential to approximate Nash equilibria. Yet, no MARL algorithms based on these dynamics have been proposed. In response to this challenge, we develop a novel experience replay-based MARL algorithm that incorporates revision protocols as tunable hyperparameters. We demonstrate, by appropriately adjusting the revision protocols, that the behavior of our algorithm mirrors the trajectories resulting from these dynamics. Importantly, our contribution provides a framework capable of extending the theoretical guarantees of MARL algorithms beyond replicator dynamics. Finally, we corroborate our theoretical findings with empirical results.





## Generative AI for Lyapunov Optimization Theory in UAV-based Low-Altitude Economy Networking
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.15928v1
- **Authors**: ['Zhang Liu', 'Dusit Niyato', 'Jiacheng Wang', 'Geng Sun', 'Lianfen Huang', 'Zhibin Gao', 'Xianbin Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Lyapunov optimization theory has recently emerged as a powerful mathematical framework for solving complex stochastic optimization problems by transforming long-term objectives into a sequence of real-time short-term decisions while ensuring system stability. This theory is particularly valuable in unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV)-based low-altitude economy (LAE) networking scenarios, where it could effectively address inherent challenges of dynamic network conditions, multiple optimization objectives, and stability requirements. Recently, generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) has garnered significant attention for its unprecedented capability to generate diverse digital content. Extending beyond content generation, in this paper, we propose a framework integrating generative diffusion models with reinforcement learning to address Lyapunov optimization problems in UAV-based LAE networking. We begin by introducing the fundamentals of Lyapunov optimization theory and analyzing the limitations of both conventional methods and traditional AI-enabled approaches. We then examine various GenAI models and comprehensively analyze their potential contributions to Lyapunov optimization. Subsequently, we develop a Lyapunov-guided generative diffusion model-based reinforcement learning framework and validate its effectiveness through a UAV-based LAE networking case study. Finally, we outline several directions for future research.





## Optimizing Automatic Differentiation with Deep Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.05027v3
- **Authors**: ['Jamie Lohoff', 'Emre Neftci']
- **Abstrat**: Computing Jacobians with automatic differentiation is ubiquitous in many scientific domains such as machine learning, computational fluid dynamics, robotics and finance. Even small savings in the number of computations or memory usage in Jacobian computations can already incur massive savings in energy consumption and runtime. While there exist many methods that allow for such savings, they generally trade computational efficiency for approximations of the exact Jacobian. In this paper, we present a novel method to optimize the number of necessary multiplications for Jacobian computation by leveraging deep reinforcement learning (RL) and a concept called cross-country elimination while still computing the exact Jacobian. Cross-country elimination is a framework for automatic differentiation that phrases Jacobian accumulation as ordered elimination of all vertices on the computational graph where every elimination incurs a certain computational cost. We formulate the search for the optimal elimination order that minimizes the number of necessary multiplications as a single player game which is played by an RL agent. We demonstrate that this method achieves up to 33% improvements over state-of-the-art methods on several relevant tasks taken from diverse domains. Furthermore, we show that these theoretical gains translate into actual runtime improvements by providing a cross-country elimination interpreter in JAX that can efficiently execute the obtained elimination orders.





## Antifragile Perimeter Control: Anticipating and Gaining from Disruptions with Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.12665v2
- **Authors**: ['Linghang Sun', 'Michail A. Makridis', 'Alexander Genser', 'Cristian Axenie', 'Margherita Grossi', 'Anastasios Kouvelas']
- **Abstrat**: The optimal operation of transportation networks is often susceptible to unexpected disruptions, such as traffic incidents and social events. Many established control strategies rely on mathematical models that struggle to cope with real-world uncertainties, leading to a significant decline in effectiveness when faced with substantial disruptions. While previous research works have dedicated efforts to improving the robustness or resilience of transportation systems against disruptions, this paper applies the cutting-edge concept of antifragility to better design a traffic control strategy for urban road networks. Antifragility sets itself apart from robustness and resilience as it represents a system's ability to not only withstand stressors, shocks, and volatility but also thrive and enhance performance in the presence of such adversarial events. Hence, modern transportation systems call for solutions that are antifragile. In this work, we propose a model-free deep Reinforcement Learning (RL) scheme to control a two-region urban traffic perimeter network. The system exploits the learning capability of RL under disruptions to achieve antifragility. By monitoring the change rate and curvature of the traffic state with the RL framework, the proposed algorithm anticipates imminent disruptions. An additional term is also integrated into the RL algorithm as redundancy to improve the performance under disruption scenarios. When compared to a state-of-the-art model predictive control approach and a state-of-the-art RL algorithm, our proposed method demonstrates two antifragility-related properties: (a) gradual performance improvement under disruptions of constant magnitude; and (b) increasingly superior performance under growing disruptions.





## The Sample Complexity of Online Reinforcement Learning: A Multi-model Perspective
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.15910v1
- **Authors**: ['Michael Muehlebach', 'Zhiyu He', 'Michael I. Jordan']
- **Abstrat**: We study the sample complexity of online reinforcement learning for nonlinear dynamical systems with continuous state and action spaces. Our analysis accommodates a large class of dynamical systems ranging from a finite set of nonlinear candidate models to models with bounded and Lipschitz continuous dynamics, to systems that are parametrized by a compact and real-valued set of parameters. In the most general setting, our algorithm achieves a policy regret of $\mathcal{O}(N \epsilon^2 + \mathrm{ln}(m(\epsilon))/\epsilon^2)$, where $N$ is the time horizon, $\epsilon$ is a user-specified discretization width, and $m(\epsilon)$ measures the complexity of the function class under consideration via its packing number. In the special case where the dynamics are parametrized by a compact and real-valued set of parameters (such as neural networks, transformers, etc.), we prove a policy regret of $\mathcal{O}(\sqrt{N p})$, where $p$ denotes the number of parameters, recovering earlier sample-complexity results that were derived for linear time-invariant dynamical systems. While this article focuses on characterizing sample complexity, the proposed algorithms are likely to be useful in practice, due to their simplicity, the ability to incorporate prior knowledge, and their benign transient behavior.





## MPC4RL -- A Software Package for Reinforcement Learning based on Model Predictive Control
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.15897v1
- **Authors**: ['Dirk Reinhardt', 'Katrin Baumgärnter', 'Jonathan Frey', 'Moritz Diehl', 'Sebastien Gros']
- **Abstrat**: In this paper, we present an early software integrating Reinforcement Learning (RL) with Model Predictive Control (MPC). Our aim is to make recent theoretical contributions from the literature more accessible to both the RL and MPC communities. We combine standard software tools developed by the RL community, such as Gymnasium, stable-baselines3, or CleanRL with the acados toolbox, a widely-used software package for efficient MPC algorithms. Our core contribution is MPC4RL, an open-source Python package that supports learning-enhanced MPC schemes for existing acados implementations. The package is designed to be modular, extensible, and user-friendly, facilitating the tuning of MPC algorithms for a broad range of control problems. It is available on GitHub.





## Benchmarking Quantum Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.15893v1
- **Authors**: ['Nico Meyer', 'Christian Ufrecht', 'George Yammine', 'Georgios Kontes', 'Christopher Mutschler', 'Daniel D. Scherer']
- **Abstrat**: Benchmarking and establishing proper statistical validation metrics for reinforcement learning (RL) remain ongoing challenges, where no consensus has been established yet. The emergence of quantum computing and its potential applications in quantum reinforcement learning (QRL) further complicate benchmarking efforts. To enable valid performance comparisons and to streamline current research in this area, we propose a novel benchmarking methodology, which is based on a statistical estimator for sample complexity and a definition of statistical outperformance. Furthermore, considering QRL, our methodology casts doubt on some previous claims regarding its superiority. We conducted experiments on a novel benchmarking environment with flexible levels of complexity. While we still identify possible advantages, our findings are more nuanced overall. We discuss the potential limitations of these results and explore their implications for empirical research on quantum advantage in QRL.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Robust Mobile Robot Path Planning via LLM-Based Dynamic Waypoint Generation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.15901v1
- **Authors**: ['Muhammad Taha Tariq', 'Congqing Wang', 'Yasir Hussain']
- **Abstrat**: Mobile robot path planning in complex environments remains a significant challenge, especially in achieving efficient, safe and robust paths. The traditional path planning techniques like DRL models typically trained for a given configuration of the starting point and target positions, these models only perform well when these conditions are satisfied. In this paper, we proposed a novel path planning framework that embeds Large Language Models to empower mobile robots with the capability of dynamically interpreting natural language commands and autonomously generating efficient, collision-free navigation paths. The proposed framework uses LLMs to translate high-level user inputs into actionable waypoints while dynamically adjusting paths in response to obstacles. We experimentally evaluated our proposed LLM-based approach across three different environments of progressive complexity, showing the robustness of our approach with llama3.1 model that outperformed other LLM models in path planning time, waypoint generation success rate, and collision avoidance. This underlines the promising contribution of LLMs for enhancing the capability of mobile robots, especially when their operation involves complex decisions in large and complex environments. Our framework has provided safer, more reliable navigation systems and opened a new direction for the future research. The source code of this work is publicly available on GitHub.




