# reinforcement learning
## Flow-GRPO: Training Flow Matching Models via Online RL
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.05470v1
- **Authors**: ['Jie Liu', 'Gongye Liu', 'Jiajun Liang', 'Yangguang Li', 'Jiaheng Liu', 'Xintao Wang', 'Pengfei Wan', 'Di Zhang', 'Wanli Ouyang']
- **Abstrat**: We propose Flow-GRPO, the first method integrating online reinforcement learning (RL) into flow matching models. Our approach uses two key strategies: (1) an ODE-to-SDE conversion that transforms a deterministic Ordinary Differential Equation (ODE) into an equivalent Stochastic Differential Equation (SDE) that matches the original model's marginal distribution at all timesteps, enabling statistical sampling for RL exploration; and (2) a Denoising Reduction strategy that reduces training denoising steps while retaining the original inference timestep number, significantly improving sampling efficiency without performance degradation. Empirically, Flow-GRPO is effective across multiple text-to-image tasks. For complex compositions, RL-tuned SD3.5 generates nearly perfect object counts, spatial relations, and fine-grained attributes, boosting GenEval accuracy from $63\%$ to $95\%$. In visual text rendering, its accuracy improves from $59\%$ to $92\%$, significantly enhancing text generation. Flow-GRPO also achieves substantial gains in human preference alignment. Notably, little to no reward hacking occurred, meaning rewards did not increase at the cost of image quality or diversity, and both remained stable in our experiments.





## RL-DAUNCE: Reinforcement Learning-Driven Data Assimilation with Uncertainty-Aware Constrained Ensembles
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.05452v1
- **Authors**: ['Pouria Behnoudfar', 'Nan Chen']
- **Abstrat**: Machine learning has become a powerful tool for enhancing data assimilation. While supervised learning remains the standard method, reinforcement learning (RL) offers unique advantages through its sequential decision-making framework, which naturally fits the iterative nature of data assimilation by dynamically balancing model forecasts with observations. We develop RL-DAUNCE, a new RL-based method that enhances data assimilation with physical constraints through three key aspects. First, RL-DAUNCE inherits the computational efficiency of machine learning while it uniquely structures its agents to mirror ensemble members in conventional data assimilation methods. Second, RL-DAUNCE emphasizes uncertainty quantification by advancing multiple ensemble members, moving beyond simple mean-state optimization. Third, RL-DAUNCE's ensemble-as-agents design facilitates the enforcement of physical constraints during the assimilation process, which is crucial to improving the state estimation and subsequent forecasting. A primal-dual optimization strategy is developed to enforce constraints, which dynamically penalizes the reward function to ensure constraint satisfaction throughout the learning process. Also, state variable bounds are respected by constraining the RL action space. Together, these features ensure physical consistency without sacrificing efficiency. RL-DAUNCE is applied to the Madden-Julian Oscillation, an intermittent atmospheric phenomenon characterized by strongly non-Gaussian features and multiple physical constraints. RL-DAUNCE outperforms the standard ensemble Kalman filter (EnKF), which fails catastrophically due to the violation of physical constraints. Notably, RL-DAUNCE matches the performance of constrained EnKF, particularly in recovering intermittent signals, capturing extreme events, and quantifying uncertainties, while requiring substantially less computational effort.





## Reasoning Models Don't Always Say What They Think
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.05410v1
- **Authors**: ['Yanda Chen', 'Joe Benton', 'Ansh Radhakrishnan', 'Jonathan Uesato', 'Carson Denison', 'John Schulman', 'Arushi Somani', 'Peter Hase', 'Misha Wagner', 'Fabien Roger', 'Vlad Mikulik', 'Samuel R. Bowman', 'Jan Leike', 'Jared Kaplan', 'Ethan Perez']
- **Abstrat**: Chain-of-thought (CoT) offers a potential boon for AI safety as it allows monitoring a model's CoT to try to understand its intentions and reasoning processes. However, the effectiveness of such monitoring hinges on CoTs faithfully representing models' actual reasoning processes. We evaluate CoT faithfulness of state-of-the-art reasoning models across 6 reasoning hints presented in the prompts and find: (1) for most settings and models tested, CoTs reveal their usage of hints in at least 1% of examples where they use the hint, but the reveal rate is often below 20%, (2) outcome-based reinforcement learning initially improves faithfulness but plateaus without saturating, and (3) when reinforcement learning increases how frequently hints are used (reward hacking), the propensity to verbalize them does not increase, even without training against a CoT monitor. These results suggest that CoT monitoring is a promising way of noticing undesired behaviors during training and evaluations, but that it is not sufficient to rule them out. They also suggest that in settings like ours where CoT reasoning is not necessary, test-time monitoring of CoTs is unlikely to reliably catch rare and catastrophic unexpected behaviors.





## SAPIENT: Mastering Multi-turn Conversational Recommendation with Strategic Planning and Monte Carlo Tree Search
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.09580v3
- **Authors**: ['Hanwen Du', 'Bo Peng', 'Xia Ning']
- **Abstrat**: Conversational Recommender Systems (CRS) proactively engage users in interactive dialogues to elicit user preferences and provide personalized recommendations. Existing methods train Reinforcement Learning (RL)-based agent with greedy action selection or sampling strategy, and may suffer from suboptimal conversational planning. To address this, we present a novel Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS)-based CRS framework SAPIENT. SAPIENT consists of a conversational agent (S-agent) and a conversational planner (S-planner). S-planner builds a conversational search tree with MCTS based on the initial actions proposed by S-agent to find conversation plans. The best conversation plans from S-planner are used to guide the training of S-agent, creating a self-training loop where S-agent can iteratively improve its capability for conversational planning. Furthermore, we propose an efficient variant SAPIENT for trade-off between training efficiency and performance. Extensive experiments on four benchmark datasets validate the effectiveness of our approach, showing that SAPIENT outperforms the state-of-the-art baselines. Our code and data are accessible through https://github.com/ninglab/SAPIENT.





## Repair Crew Routing for Infrastructure Network Restoration under Incomplete Information
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.05297v1
- **Authors**: ['Subhojit Biswas', 'Bahar Cavdar', 'Joseph Geunes']
- **Abstrat**: This paper considers a disrupted infrastructure network where the repair crew knows the locations of service outages but not the locations of actual faults. Our goal is to determine a route for a single crew to visit and repair the disruptions to restore service with minimum negative impact. We call this problem the Traveling Repairman Network Restoration Problem (TRNRP). This problem presents strong computational challenges due to the combinatorial nature of the decisions, inter-dependencies within the underlying infrastructure network, and incomplete information. Considering the dynamic nature of the decisions as a result of dynamic information revelation on the status of the nodes, we model this problem as a finite-horizon Markov decision process. Our solution approach uses value approximation based on reinforcement learning, which is strengthened by structural results that identify a set of suboptimal moves. In addition, we propose state aggregation methods to reduce the size of the state space. We perform extensive computational studies to characterize the performance of our solution methods under different parameter settings and to compare them with benchmark solution approaches.





## Morphologically Symmetric Reinforcement Learning for Ambidextrous Bimanual Manipulation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.05287v1
- **Authors**: ['Zechu Li', 'Yufeng Jin', 'Daniel Ordonez Apraez', 'Claudio Semini', 'Puze Liu', 'Georgia Chalvatzaki']
- **Abstrat**: Humans naturally exhibit bilateral symmetry in their gross manipulation skills, effortlessly mirroring simple actions between left and right hands. Bimanual robots-which also feature bilateral symmetry-should similarly exploit this property to perform tasks with either hand. Unlike humans, who often favor a dominant hand for fine dexterous skills, robots should ideally execute ambidextrous manipulation with equal proficiency. To this end, we introduce SYMDEX (SYMmetric DEXterity), a reinforcement learning framework for ambidextrous bi-manipulation that leverages the robot's inherent bilateral symmetry as an inductive bias. SYMDEX decomposes complex bimanual manipulation tasks into per-hand subtasks and trains dedicated policies for each. By exploiting bilateral symmetry via equivariant neural networks, experience from one arm is inherently leveraged by the opposite arm. We then distill the subtask policies into a global ambidextrous policy that is independent of the hand-task assignment. We evaluate SYMDEX on six challenging simulated manipulation tasks and demonstrate successful real-world deployment on two of them. Our approach strongly outperforms baselines on complex task in which the left and right hands perform different roles. We further demonstrate SYMDEX's scalability by extending it to a four-arm manipulation setup, where our symmetry-aware policies enable effective multi-arm collaboration and coordination. Our results highlight how structural symmetry as inductive bias in policy learning enhances sample efficiency, robustness, and generalization across diverse dexterous manipulation tasks.





## Enhancing Cooperative Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning with State Modelling and Adversarial Exploration
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.05262v1
- **Authors**: ['Andreas Kontogiannis', 'Konstantinos Papathanasiou', 'Yi Shen', 'Giorgos Stamou', 'Michael M. Zavlanos', 'George Vouros']
- **Abstrat**: Learning to cooperate in distributed partially observable environments with no communication abilities poses significant challenges for multi-agent deep reinforcement learning (MARL). This paper addresses key concerns in this domain, focusing on inferring state representations from individual agent observations and leveraging these representations to enhance agents' exploration and collaborative task execution policies. To this end, we propose a novel state modelling framework for cooperative MARL, where agents infer meaningful belief representations of the non-observable state, with respect to optimizing their own policies, while filtering redundant and less informative joint state information. Building upon this framework, we propose the MARL SMPE algorithm. In SMPE, agents enhance their own policy's discriminative abilities under partial observability, explicitly by incorporating their beliefs into the policy network, and implicitly by adopting an adversarial type of exploration policies which encourages agents to discover novel, high-value states while improving the discriminative abilities of others. Experimentally, we show that SMPE outperforms state-of-the-art MARL algorithms in complex fully cooperative tasks from the MPE, LBF, and RWARE benchmarks.





## Advancing Neural Network Verification through Hierarchical Safety Abstract Interpretation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.05235v1
- **Authors**: ['Luca Marzari', 'Isabella Mastroeni', 'Alessandro Farinelli']
- **Abstrat**: Traditional methods for formal verification (FV) of deep neural networks (DNNs) are constrained by a binary encoding of safety properties, where a model is classified as either safe or unsafe (robust or not robust). This binary encoding fails to capture the nuanced safety levels within a model, often resulting in either overly restrictive or too permissive requirements. In this paper, we introduce a novel problem formulation called Abstract DNN-Verification, which verifies a hierarchical structure of unsafe outputs, providing a more granular analysis of the safety aspect for a given DNN. Crucially, by leveraging abstract interpretation and reasoning about output reachable sets, our approach enables assessing multiple safety levels during the FV process, requiring the same (in the worst case) or even potentially less computational effort than the traditional binary verification approach. Specifically, we demonstrate how this formulation allows rank adversarial inputs according to their abstract safety level violation, offering a more detailed evaluation of the model's safety and robustness. Our contributions include a theoretical exploration of the relationship between our novel abstract safety formulation and existing approaches that employ abstract interpretation for robustness verification, complexity analysis of the novel problem introduced, and an empirical evaluation considering both a complex deep reinforcement learning task (based on Habitat 3.0) and standard DNN-Verification benchmarks.





## Adaptive Biased User Scheduling for Heterogeneous Wireless Federate Learning Network
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.05231v1
- **Authors**: ['Changxiang Wu', 'Yijing Ren', 'Daniel K. C. So', 'Jie Tang']
- **Abstrat**: Federated Learning (FL) has revolutionized collaborative model training in distributed networks, prioritizing data privacy and communication efficiency. This paper investigates efficient deployment of FL in wireless heterogeneous networks, focusing on strategies to accelerate convergence despite stragglers. The primary objective is to minimize long-term convergence wall-clock time through optimized user scheduling and resource allocation. While stragglers may introduce delays in a single round, their inclusion can expedite subsequent rounds, particularly when they possess critical information. Moreover, balancing single-round duration with the number of cumulative rounds, compounded by dynamic training and transmission conditions, necessitates a novel approach beyond conventional optimization solutions. To tackle these challenges, convergence analysis with respect to adaptive and biased scheduling is derived. Then, by factoring in real-time system and statistical information, including diverse energy constraints and users' energy harvesting capabilities, a deep reinforcement learning approach, empowered by proximal policy optimization, is employed to adaptively select user sets. For the scheduled users, Lagrangian decomposition is applied to optimize local resource utilization, further enhancing system efficiency. Simulation results validate the effectiveness and robustness of the proposed framework for various FL tasks, demonstrating reduced task time compared to existing benchmarks under various settings.





## Multi-Objective Reinforcement Learning for Adaptive Personalized Autonomous Driving
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.05223v1
- **Authors**: ['Hendrik Surmann', 'Jorge de Heuvel', 'Maren Bennewitz']
- **Abstrat**: Human drivers exhibit individual preferences regarding driving style. Adapting autonomous vehicles to these preferences is essential for user trust and satisfaction. However, existing end-to-end driving approaches often rely on predefined driving styles or require continuous user feedback for adaptation, limiting their ability to support dynamic, context-dependent preferences. We propose a novel approach using multi-objective reinforcement learning (MORL) with preference-driven optimization for end-to-end autonomous driving that enables runtime adaptation to driving style preferences. Preferences are encoded as continuous weight vectors to modulate behavior along interpretable style objectives$\unicode{x2013}$including efficiency, comfort, speed, and aggressiveness$\unicode{x2013}$without requiring policy retraining. Our single-policy agent integrates vision-based perception in complex mixed-traffic scenarios and is evaluated in diverse urban environments using the CARLA simulator. Experimental results demonstrate that the agent dynamically adapts its driving behavior according to changing preferences while maintaining performance in terms of collision avoidance and route completion.





## SmallPlan: Leverage Small Language Models for Sequential Path Planning with Simulation-Powered, LLM-Guided Distillation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.00831v3
- **Authors**: ['Quang P. M. Pham', 'Khoi T. N. Nguyen', 'Nhi H. Doan', 'Cuong A. Pham', 'Kentaro Inui', 'Dezhen Song']
- **Abstrat**: Efficient path planning in robotics, particularly within large-scale, dynamic environments, remains a significant hurdle. While Large Language Models (LLMs) offer strong reasoning capabilities, their high computational cost and limited adaptability in dynamic scenarios hinder real-time deployment on edge devices. We present SmallPlan -- a novel framework leveraging LLMs as teacher models to train lightweight Small Language Models (SLMs) for high-level path planning tasks. In SmallPlan, the SLMs provide optimal action sequences to navigate across scene graphs that compactly represent full-scaled 3D scenes. The SLMs are trained in a simulation-powered, interleaved manner with LLM-guided supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and reinforcement learning (RL). This strategy not only enables SLMs to successfully complete navigation tasks but also makes them aware of important factors like travel distance and number of trials. Through experiments, we demonstrate that the fine-tuned SLMs perform competitively with larger models like GPT-4o on sequential path planning, without suffering from hallucination and overfitting. SmallPlan is resource-efficient, making it well-suited for edge-device deployment and advancing practical autonomous robotics.





## Data-Driven Merton's Strategies via Policy Randomization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11797v2
- **Authors**: ['Min Dai', 'Yuchao Dong', 'Yanwei Jia', 'Xun Yu Zhou']
- **Abstrat**: We study Merton's expected utility maximization problem in an incomplete market, characterized by a factor process in addition to the stock price process, where all the model primitives are unknown. The agent under consideration is a price taker who has access only to the stock and factor value processes and the instantaneous volatility. We propose an auxiliary problem in which the agent can invoke policy randomization according to a specific class of Gaussian distributions, and prove that the mean of its optimal Gaussian policy solves the original Merton problem. With randomized policies, we are in the realm of continuous-time reinforcement learning (RL) recently developed in Wang et al. (2020) and Jia and Zhou (2022a, 2022b, 2023), enabling us to solve the auxiliary problem in a data-driven way without having to estimate the model primitives. Specifically, we establish a policy improvement theorem based on which we design both online and offline actor-critic RL algorithms for learning Merton's strategies. A key insight from this study is that RL in general and policy randomization in particular are useful beyond the purpose for exploration -- they can be employed as a technical tool to solve a problem that cannot be otherwise solved by mere deterministic policies. At last, we carry out both simulation and empirical studies in a stochastic volatility environment to demonstrate the decisive outperformance of the devised RL algorithms in comparison to the conventional model-based, plug-in method.





## Taming OOD Actions for Offline Reinforcement Learning: An Advantage-Based Approach
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.05126v1
- **Authors**: ['Xuyang Chen', 'Keyu Yan', 'Lin Zhao']
- **Abstrat**: Offline reinforcement learning (RL) aims to learn decision-making policies from fixed datasets without online interactions, providing a practical solution where online data collection is expensive or risky. However, offline RL often suffers from distribution shift, resulting in inaccurate evaluation and substantial overestimation on out-of-distribution (OOD) actions. To address this, existing approaches incorporate conservatism by indiscriminately discouraging all OOD actions, thereby hindering the agent's ability to generalize and exploit beneficial ones. In this paper, we propose Advantage-based Diffusion Actor-Critic (ADAC), a novel method that systematically evaluates OOD actions using the batch-optimal value function. Based on this evaluation, ADAC defines an advantage function to modulate the Q-function update, enabling more precise assessment of OOD action quality. We design a custom PointMaze environment and collect datasets to visually reveal that advantage modulation can effectively identify and select superior OOD actions. Extensive experiments show that ADAC achieves state-of-the-art performance on almost all tasks in the D4RL benchmark, with particularly clear margins on the more challenging tasks.





## USPR: Learning a Unified Solver for Profiled Routing
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.05119v1
- **Authors**: ['Chuanbo Hua', 'Federico Berto', 'Zhikai Zhao', 'Jiwoo Son', 'Changhyun Kwon', 'Jinkyoo Park']
- **Abstrat**: The Profiled Vehicle Routing Problem (PVRP) extends the classical VRP by incorporating vehicle-client-specific preferences and constraints, reflecting real-world requirements such as zone restrictions and service-level preferences. While recent reinforcement learning (RL) solvers have shown promise, they require retraining for each new profile distribution, suffer from poor representation ability, and struggle to generalize to out-of-distribution instances. In this paper, we address these limitations by introducing USPR (Unified Solver for Profiled Routing), a novel framework that natively handles arbitrary profile types. USPR introduces three key innovations: (i) Profile Embeddings (PE) to encode any combination of profile types; (ii) Multi-Head Profiled Attention (MHPA), an attention mechanism that models rich interactions between vehicles and clients; (iii) Profile-aware Score Reshaping (PSR), which dynamically adjusts decoder logits using profile scores to improve generalization. Empirical results on diverse PVRP benchmarks demonstrate that USPR achieves state-of-the-art results among learning-based methods while offering significant gains in flexibility and computational efficiency. We make our source code publicly available to foster future research at https://github.com/ai4co/uspr.





## Multi-agent Embodied AI: Advances and Future Directions
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.05108v1
- **Authors**: ['Zhaohan Feng', 'Ruiqi Xue', 'Lei Yuan', 'Yang Yu', 'Ning Ding', 'Meiqin Liu', 'Bingzhao Gao', 'Jian Sun', 'Gang Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Embodied artificial intelligence (Embodied AI) plays a pivotal role in the application of advanced technologies in the intelligent era, where AI systems are integrated with physical bodies that enable them to perceive, reason, and interact with their environments. Through the use of sensors for input and actuators for action, these systems can learn and adapt based on real-world feedback, allowing them to perform tasks effectively in dynamic and unpredictable environments. As techniques such as deep learning (DL), reinforcement learning (RL), and large language models (LLMs) mature, embodied AI has become a leading field in both academia and industry, with applications spanning robotics, healthcare, transportation, and manufacturing. However, most research has focused on single-agent systems that often assume static, closed environments, whereas real-world embodied AI must navigate far more complex scenarios. In such settings, agents must not only interact with their surroundings but also collaborate with other agents, necessitating sophisticated mechanisms for adaptation, real-time learning, and collaborative problem-solving. Despite increasing interest in multi-agent systems, existing research remains narrow in scope, often relying on simplified models that fail to capture the full complexity of dynamic, open environments for multi-agent embodied AI. Moreover, no comprehensive survey has systematically reviewed the advancements in this area. As embodied AI rapidly evolves, it is crucial to deepen our understanding of multi-agent embodied AI to address the challenges presented by real-world applications. To fill this gap and foster further development in the field, this paper reviews the current state of research, analyzes key contributions, and identifies challenges and future directions, providing insights to guide innovation and progress in this field.





## Probabilistic Uncertain Reward Model
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.22480v5
- **Authors**: ['Wangtao Sun', 'Xiang Cheng', 'Xing Yu', 'Haotian Xu', 'Zhao Yang', 'Shizhu He', 'Jun Zhao', 'Kang Liu']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) has emerged as a critical technique for training large language models. However, reward hacking-a phenomenon where models exploit flaws in the reward model-remains a significant barrier to achieving robust and scalable intelligence through long-term training. Existing studies have proposed the uncertain reward models to address reward hacking, however, they often lack systematic or theoretical foundations, failing to model the uncertainty intrinsically emerging from preference data, and thus cannot sufficiently mitigate reward hacking to sustain prolonged RLHF training and exploration. In this paper, we propose a Probabilistic Uncertain Reward Model (PURM), a natural generalization of the classical Bradley-Terry reward model, that can directly learn the reward distribution emerged from the preference data. We theoretically derived PURM's loss function and the uncertainty of the reward distribution. To mitigate reward hacking with PURM, we further introduce an uncertainty-aware penalty into Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO), which leverages the learned uncertainty to dynamically balance reward optimization and exploration. Experimental results demonstrate that PURM significantly delays the onset of reward hacking while improving final performance compared with existing methods. We also find that PURM genuinely produce sound reward and uncertainty estimations. The data and code of this paper can be found at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/Probabilistic-Uncertain-Reward-Model/





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Don't Shake the Wheel: Momentum-Aware Planning in End-to-End Autonomous Driving
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.03125v3
- **Authors**: ['Ziying Song', 'Caiyan Jia', 'Lin Liu', 'Hongyu Pan', 'Yongchang Zhang', 'Junming Wang', 'Xingyu Zhang', 'Shaoqing Xu', 'Lei Yang', 'Yadan Luo']
- **Abstrat**: End-to-end autonomous driving frameworks enable seamless integration of perception and planning but often rely on one-shot trajectory prediction, which may lead to unstable control and vulnerability to occlusions in single-frame perception. To address this, we propose the Momentum-Aware Driving (MomAD) framework, which introduces trajectory momentum and perception momentum to stabilize and refine trajectory predictions. MomAD comprises two core components: (1) Topological Trajectory Matching (TTM) employs Hausdorff Distance to select the optimal planning query that aligns with prior paths to ensure coherence;(2) Momentum Planning Interactor (MPI) cross-attends the selected planning query with historical queries to expand static and dynamic perception files. This enriched query, in turn, helps regenerate long-horizon trajectory and reduce collision risks. To mitigate noise arising from dynamic environments and detection errors, we introduce robust instance denoising during training, enabling the planning model to focus on critical signals and improve its robustness. We also propose a novel Trajectory Prediction Consistency (TPC) metric to quantitatively assess planning stability. Experiments on the nuScenes dataset demonstrate that MomAD achieves superior long-term consistency (>=3s) compared to SOTA methods. Moreover, evaluations on the curated Turning-nuScenes shows that MomAD reduces the collision rate by 26% and improves TPC by 0.97m (33.45%) over a 6s prediction horizon, while closedloop on Bench2Drive demonstrates an up to 16.3% improvement in success rate.





## SmallPlan: Leverage Small Language Models for Sequential Path Planning with Simulation-Powered, LLM-Guided Distillation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.00831v3
- **Authors**: ['Quang P. M. Pham', 'Khoi T. N. Nguyen', 'Nhi H. Doan', 'Cuong A. Pham', 'Kentaro Inui', 'Dezhen Song']
- **Abstrat**: Efficient path planning in robotics, particularly within large-scale, dynamic environments, remains a significant hurdle. While Large Language Models (LLMs) offer strong reasoning capabilities, their high computational cost and limited adaptability in dynamic scenarios hinder real-time deployment on edge devices. We present SmallPlan -- a novel framework leveraging LLMs as teacher models to train lightweight Small Language Models (SLMs) for high-level path planning tasks. In SmallPlan, the SLMs provide optimal action sequences to navigate across scene graphs that compactly represent full-scaled 3D scenes. The SLMs are trained in a simulation-powered, interleaved manner with LLM-guided supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and reinforcement learning (RL). This strategy not only enables SLMs to successfully complete navigation tasks but also makes them aware of important factors like travel distance and number of trials. Through experiments, we demonstrate that the fine-tuned SLMs perform competitively with larger models like GPT-4o on sequential path planning, without suffering from hallucination and overfitting. SmallPlan is resource-efficient, making it well-suited for edge-device deployment and advancing practical autonomous robotics.




