# reinforcement learning
## Learning to Play Piano in the Real World
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.15481v1
- **Authors**: ['Yves-Simon Zeulner', 'Sandeep Selvaraj', 'Roberto Calandra']
- **Abstrat**: Towards the grand challenge of achieving human-level manipulation in robots, playing piano is a compelling testbed that requires strategic, precise, and flowing movements. Over the years, several works demonstrated hand-designed controllers on real world piano playing, while other works evaluated robot learning approaches on simulated piano scenarios. In this paper, we develop the first piano playing robotic system that makes use of learning approaches while also being deployed on a real world dexterous robot. Specifically, we make use of Sim2Real to train a policy in simulation using reinforcement learning before deploying the learned policy on a real world dexterous robot. In our experiments, we thoroughly evaluate the interplay between domain randomization and the accuracy of the dynamics model used in simulation. Moreover, we evaluate the robot's performance across multiple songs with varying complexity to study the generalization of our learned policy. By providing a proof-of-concept of learning to play piano in the real world, we want to encourage the community to adopt piano playing as a compelling benchmark towards human-level manipulation. We open-source our code and show additional videos at https://lasr.org/research/learning-to-play-piano .





## What Makes a Reward Model a Good Teacher? An Optimization Perspective
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.15477v1
- **Authors**: ['Noam Razin', 'Zixuan Wang', 'Hubert Strauss', 'Stanley Wei', 'Jason D. Lee', 'Sanjeev Arora']
- **Abstrat**: The success of Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) critically depends on the quality of the reward model. While this quality is primarily evaluated through accuracy, it remains unclear whether accuracy fully captures what makes a reward model an effective teacher. We address this question from an optimization perspective. First, we prove that regardless of how accurate a reward model is, if it induces low reward variance, then the RLHF objective suffers from a flat landscape. Consequently, even a perfectly accurate reward model can lead to extremely slow optimization, underperforming less accurate models that induce higher reward variance. We additionally show that a reward model that works well for one language model can induce low reward variance, and thus a flat objective landscape, for another. These results establish a fundamental limitation of evaluating reward models solely based on accuracy or independently of the language model they guide. Experiments using models of up to 8B parameters corroborate our theory, demonstrating the interplay between reward variance, accuracy, and reward maximization rate. Overall, our findings highlight that beyond accuracy, a reward model needs to induce sufficient variance for efficient optimization.





## Controllable Latent Diffusion for Traffic Simulation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.11771v2
- **Authors**: ['Yizhuo Xiao', 'Mustafa Suphi Erden', 'Cheng Wang']
- **Abstrat**: The validation of autonomous driving systems benefits greatly from the ability to generate scenarios that are both realistic and precisely controllable. Conventional approaches, such as real-world test drives, are not only expensive but also lack the flexibility to capture targeted edge cases for thorough evaluation. To address these challenges, we propose a controllable latent diffusion that guides the training of diffusion models via reinforcement learning to automatically generate a diverse and controllable set of driving scenarios for virtual testing. Our approach removes the reliance on large-scale real-world data by generating complex scenarios whose properties can be finely tuned to challenge and assess autonomous vehicle systems. Experimental results show that our approach has the lowest collision rate of $0.098$ and lowest off-road rate of $0.096$, demonstrating superiority over existing baselines. The proposed approach significantly improves the realism, stability and controllability of the generated scenarios, enabling more nuanced safety evaluation of autonomous vehicles.





## Hybrid Quantum-Classical Reinforcement Learning in Latent Observation Spaces
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.18284v3
- **Authors**: ['Dániel T. R. Nagy', 'Csaba Czabán', 'Bence Bakó', 'Péter Hága', 'Zsófia Kallus', 'Zoltán Zimborás']
- **Abstrat**: Recent progress in quantum machine learning has sparked interest in using quantum methods to tackle classical control problems via quantum reinforcement learning. However, the classical reinforcement learning environments often scale to high dimensional problem spaces, which represents a challenge for the limited and costly resources available for quantum agent implementations. We propose to solve this dimensionality challenge by a classical autoencoder and a quantum agent together, where a compressed representation of observations is jointly learned in a hybrid training loop. The latent representation of such an autoencoder will serve as a tailored observation space best suited for both the control problem and the QPU architecture, aligning with the agent's requirements. A series of numerical experiments are designed for a performance analysis of the latent-space learning method. Results are presented for different control problems and for both photonic (continuous-variable) and qubit-based agents, to show how the QNN learning process is improved by the joint training.





## A Role of Environmental Complexity on Representation Learning in Deep Reinforcement Learning Agents
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.03436v2
- **Authors**: ['Andrew Liu', 'Alla Borisyuk']
- **Abstrat**: We developed a simulated environment to train deep reinforcement learning agents on a shortcut usage navigation task, motivated by the Dual Solutions Paradigm test used for human navigators. We manipulated the frequency with which agents were exposed to a shortcut and a navigation cue, to investigate how these factors influence shortcut usage development. We find that all agents rapidly achieve optimal performance in closed shortcut trials once initial learning starts. However, their navigation speed and shortcut usage when it is open happen faster in agents with higher shortcut exposure. Analysis of the agents' artificial neural networks activity revealed that frequent presentation of a cue initially resulted in better encoding of the cue in the activity of individual nodes, compared to agents who encountered the cue less often. However, stronger cue representations were ultimately formed through the use of the cue in the context of navigation planning, rather than simply through exposure. We found that in all agents, spatial representations develop early in training and subsequently stabilize before navigation strategies fully develop, suggesting that having spatially consistent activations is necessary for basic navigation, but insufficient for advanced strategies. Further, using new analysis techniques, we found that the planned trajectory rather than the agent's immediate location is encoded in the agent's networks. Moreover, the encoding is represented at the population rather than the individual node level. These techniques could have broader applications in studying neural activity across populations of neurons or network nodes beyond individual activity patterns.





## Reinforcement Learning Outperforms Supervised Fine-Tuning: A Case Study on Audio Question Answering
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.11197v3
- **Authors**: ['Gang Li', 'Jizhong Liu', 'Heinrich Dinkel', 'Yadong Niu', 'Junbo Zhang', 'Jian Luan']
- **Abstrat**: Recently, reinforcement learning (RL) has been shown to greatly enhance the reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs), and RL-based approaches have been progressively applied to visual multimodal tasks. However, the audio modality has largely been overlooked in these developments. Thus, we conduct a series of RL explorations in audio understanding and reasoning, specifically focusing on the audio question answering (AQA) task. We leverage the group relative policy optimization (GRPO) algorithm to Qwen2-Audio-7B-Instruct, and our experiments demonstrated state-of-the-art performance on the MMAU Test-mini benchmark, achieving an accuracy rate of 64.5%. The main findings in this technical report are as follows: 1) The GRPO algorithm can be effectively applied to large audio language models (LALMs), even when the model has only 8.2B parameters; 2) With only 38k post-training samples, RL significantly outperforms supervised fine-tuning (SFT), indicating that RL-based approaches can be effective without large datasets; 3) The explicit reasoning process has not shown significant benefits for AQA tasks, and how to efficiently utilize deep thinking remains an open question for further research; 4) LALMs still lag far behind humans auditory-language reasoning, suggesting that the RL-based approaches warrant further exploration. Our project is available at https://github.com/xiaomi-research/r1-aqa and https://huggingface.co/mispeech/r1-aqa.





## Algorithmic Collusion And The Minimum Price Markov Game
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.03521v3
- **Authors**: ['Igor Sadoune', 'Marcelin Joanis', 'Andrea Lodi']
- **Abstrat**: This paper introduces the Minimum Price Markov Game (MPMG), a theoretical model that reasonably approximates real-world first-price markets following the minimum price rule, such as public auctions. The goal is to provide researchers and practitioners with a framework to study market fairness and regulation in both digitized and non-digitized public procurement processes, amid growing concerns about algorithmic collusion in online markets. Using multi-agent reinforcement learning-driven artificial agents, we demonstrate that (i) the MPMG is a reliable model for first-price market dynamics, (ii) the minimum price rule is generally resilient to non-engineered tacit coordination among rational actors, and (iii) when tacit coordination occurs, it relies heavily on self-reinforcing trends. These findings contribute to the ongoing debate about algorithmic pricing and its implications.





## Multi-Armed Bandits and Quantum Channel Oracles
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2301.08544v4
- **Authors**: ['Simon Buchholz', 'Jonas M. Kübler', 'Bernhard Schölkopf']
- **Abstrat**: Multi-armed bandits are one of the theoretical pillars of reinforcement learning. Recently, the investigation of quantum algorithms for multi-armed bandit problems was started, and it was found that a quadratic speed-up (in query complexity) is possible when the arms and the randomness of the rewards of the arms can be queried in superposition. Here we introduce further bandit models where we only have limited access to the randomness of the rewards, but we can still query the arms in superposition. We show that then the query complexity is the same as for classical algorithms. This generalizes the prior result that no speed-up is possible for unstructured search when the oracle has positive failure probability.





## Optimizing Decomposition for Optimal Claim Verification
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.15354v1
- **Authors**: ['Yining Lu', 'Noah Ziems', 'Hy Dang', 'Meng Jiang']
- **Abstrat**: Current research on the \textit{Decompose-Then-Verify} paradigm for evaluating the factuality of long-form text typically treats decomposition and verification in isolation, overlooking their interactions and potential misalignment. We find that existing decomposition policies, typically hand-crafted demonstrations, do not align well with downstream verifiers in terms of atomicity -- a novel metric quantifying information density -- leading to suboptimal verification results. We formulate finding the optimal decomposition policy for optimal verification as a bilevel optimization problem. To approximate a solution for this strongly NP-hard problem, we propose dynamic decomposition, a reinforcement learning framework that leverages verifier feedback to learn a policy for dynamically decomposing claims to verifier-preferred atomicity. Experimental results show that dynamic decomposition outperforms existing decomposition policies, improving verification confidence by 0.07 and accuracy by 0.12 (on a 0-1 scale) on average across varying verifiers, datasets, and atomcities of input claims.





## Towards Hierarchical Multi-Step Reward Models for Enhanced Reasoning in Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.13551v2
- **Authors**: ['Teng Wang', 'Zhangyi Jiang', 'Zhenqi He', 'Wenhan Yang', 'Yanan Zheng', 'Zeyu Li', 'Zifan He', 'Shenyang Tong', 'Hailei Gong']
- **Abstrat**: Recent studies show that Large Language Models (LLMs) achieve strong reasoning capabilities through supervised fine-tuning or reinforcement learning. However, a key approach, the Process Reward Model (PRM), suffers from reward hacking, making it unreliable in identifying the best intermediate steps. In this paper, we propose a novel reward model approach, Hierarchical Reward Model (HRM), which evaluates both individual and consecutive reasoning steps from fine-grained and coarse-grained level. HRM performs better in assessing reasoning coherence and self-reflection, particularly when the previous reasoning step is incorrect. Furthermore, to address the inefficiency of autonomous generating PRM training data via Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS), we introduce a lightweight and effective data augmentation strategy called Hierarchical Node Compression (HNC) based on node merging (combining two consecutive reasoning steps into one step) in the tree structure. This approach diversifies MCTS results for HRM with negligible computational overhead, enhancing label robustness by introducing noise. Empirical results on the PRM800K dataset demonstrate that HRM, in conjunction with HNC, achieves superior stability and reliability in evaluation compared to PRM. Furthermore, cross-domain evaluations on MATH500 and GSM8K confirm HRM's superior generalization and robustness across diverse reasoning tasks. The code for all experiments will be released at https: //github.com/tengwang0318/hierarchial_reward_model.





## PLM: Efficient Peripheral Language Models Hardware-Co-Designed for Ubiquitous Computing
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.12167v2
- **Authors**: ['Cheng Deng', 'Luoyang Sun', 'Jiwen Jiang', 'Yongcheng Zeng', 'Xinjian Wu', 'Wenxin Zhao', 'Qingfa Xiao', 'Jiachuan Wang', 'Haoyang Li', 'Lei Chen', 'Lionel M. Ni', 'Haifeng Zhang', 'Jun Wang']
- **Abstrat**: While scaling laws have been continuously validated in large language models (LLMs) with increasing model parameters, the inherent tension between the inference demands of LLMs and the limited resources of edge devices poses a critical challenge to the development of edge intelligence. Recently, numerous small language models have emerged, aiming to distill the capabilities of LLMs into smaller footprints. However, these models often retain the fundamental architectural principles of their larger counterparts, still imposing considerable strain on the storage and bandwidth capacities of edge devices. In this paper, we introduce the PLM, a Peripheral Language Model, developed through a co-design process that jointly optimizes model architecture and edge system constraints. The PLM utilizes a Multi-head Latent Attention mechanism and employs the squared ReLU activation function to encourage sparsity, thereby reducing peak memory footprint during inference. During training, we collect and reorganize open-source datasets, implement a multi-phase training strategy, and empirically investigate the Warmup-Stable-Decay-Constant (WSDC) learning rate scheduler. Additionally, we incorporate Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) by adopting the ARIES preference learning approach. Following a two-phase SFT process, this method yields performance gains of 2% in general tasks, 9% in the GSM8K task, and 11% in coding tasks. In addition to its novel architecture, evaluation results demonstrate that PLM outperforms existing small language models trained on publicly available data while maintaining the lowest number of activated parameters. Furthermore, deployment across various edge devices, including consumer-grade GPUs, mobile phones, and Raspberry Pis, validates PLM's suitability for peripheral applications. The PLM series models are publicly available at https://github.com/plm-team/PLM.





## aiXcoder-7B-v2: Training LLMs to Fully Utilize the Long Context in Repository-level Code Completion
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.15301v1
- **Authors**: ['Jia Li', 'Hao Zhu', 'Huanyu Liu', 'Xianjie Shi', 'He Zong', 'Yihong Dong', 'Kechi Zhang', 'Siyuan Jiang', 'Zhi Jin', 'Ge Li']
- **Abstrat**: Repository-level code completion aims to complete code based on the long contexts of the repository. Existing studies extract long contexts from the repository as inputs and leverage Large Language Models (LLMs) to generate code. However, we reveal a severe limitation of LLMs, i.e., LLMs may ignore the information within long contexts in code completion. In other words, even the contexts contain useful information (e.g., relevant APIs or similar code), LLMs may fail to utilize this information. We think this limitation is caused by an inherent bias in LLMs, i.e., relying on nearby contexts and ignoring long-range contexts. To address this, we propose a novel fine-tuning approach named CoLT. The core idea of CoLT is to provide explicit supervision signals, which emphasize that long-range contexts may hold relevant information. Specifically, CoLT proposes a reinforcement learning-based training, which explicitly encourages models to utilize the information within long contexts and punishes models for ignoring long contexts. To support CoLT, we release CoLT-132K, a large-scale dataset with 132k samples across four languages, each containing long-context inputs. We apply CoLT to a popular LLM - aiXcoder-7B and release aiXcoder-7B-v2. We conduct extensive experiments on CoLT-132K and a public benchmark - CrossCodeEval. Our experiments yield the results: 1. Effectiveness. CoLT substantially improves aiXcoder-7B. aiXcoder-7B-v2 outperforms aiXcoder-7B by up to 44% in exact match. aiXcoder-7B-v2 becomes the state-of-the-art 7B model in code completion and even surpasses larger models. 2. Generalizability. The capability learned by CoLT can generalize to new languages. Besides, CoLT is model-agnostic and effectively improves multiple LLMs. 3. Enhanced Context Utilization Capability. CoLT significantly improves the capability of LLMs in utilizing the relevant information within long contexts.





## Reinforcement Learning for Robust Athletic Intelligence: Lessons from the 2nd 'AI Olympics with RealAIGym' Competition
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.15290v1
- **Authors**: ['Felix Wiebe', 'Niccolò Turcato', 'Alberto Dalla Libera', 'Jean Seong Bjorn Choe', 'Bumkyu Choi', 'Tim Lukas Faust', 'Habib Maraqten', 'Erfan Aghadavoodi', 'Marco Cali', 'Alberto Sinigaglia', 'Giulio Giacomuzzo', 'Diego Romeres', 'Jong-kook Kim', 'Gian Antonio Susto', 'Shubham Vyas', 'Dennis Mronga', 'Boris Belousov', 'Jan Peters', 'Frank Kirchner', 'Shivesh Kumar']
- **Abstrat**: In the field of robotics many different approaches ranging from classical planning over optimal control to reinforcement learning (RL) are developed and borrowed from other fields to achieve reliable control in diverse tasks. In order to get a clear understanding of their individual strengths and weaknesses and their applicability in real world robotic scenarios is it important to benchmark and compare their performances not only in a simulation but also on real hardware. The '2nd AI Olympics with RealAIGym' competition was held at the IROS 2024 conference to contribute to this cause and evaluate different controllers according to their ability to solve a dynamic control problem on an underactuated double pendulum system with chaotic dynamics. This paper describes the four different RL methods submitted by the participating teams, presents their performance in the swing-up task on a real double pendulum, measured against various criteria, and discusses their transferability from simulation to real hardware and their robustness to external disturbances.





## SHIRE: Enhancing Sample Efficiency using Human Intuition in REinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.09990v2
- **Authors**: ['Amogh Joshi', 'Adarsh Kumar Kosta', 'Kaushik Roy']
- **Abstrat**: The ability of neural networks to perform robotic perception and control tasks such as depth and optical flow estimation, simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), and automatic control has led to their widespread adoption in recent years. Deep Reinforcement Learning has been used extensively in these settings, as it does not have the unsustainable training costs associated with supervised learning. However, DeepRL suffers from poor sample efficiency, i.e., it requires a large number of environmental interactions to converge to an acceptable solution. Modern RL algorithms such as Deep Q Learning and Soft Actor-Critic attempt to remedy this shortcoming but can not provide the explainability required in applications such as autonomous robotics. Humans intuitively understand the long-time-horizon sequential tasks common in robotics. Properly using such intuition can make RL policies more explainable while enhancing their sample efficiency. In this work, we propose SHIRE, a novel framework for encoding human intuition using Probabilistic Graphical Models (PGMs) and using it in the Deep RL training pipeline to enhance sample efficiency. Our framework achieves 25-78% sample efficiency gains across the environments we evaluate at negligible overhead cost. Additionally, by teaching RL agents the encoded elementary behavior, SHIRE enhances policy explainability. A real-world demonstration further highlights the efficacy of policies trained using our framework.





## AI-driven control of bioelectric signalling for real-time topological reorganization of cells
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.13489v2
- **Authors**: ['Gonçalo Hora de Carvalho']
- **Abstrat**: Understanding and manipulating bioelectric signaling could present a new wave of progress in developmental biology, regenerative medicine, and synthetic biology. Bioelectric signals, defined as voltage gradients across cell membranes caused by ionic movements, play a role in regulating crucial processes including cellular differentiation, proliferation, apoptosis, and tissue morphogenesis. Recent studies demonstrate the ability to modulate these signals to achieve controlled tissue regeneration and morphological outcomes in organisms such as planaria and frogs. However, significant knowledge gaps remain, particularly in predicting and controlling the spatial and temporal dynamics of membrane potentials (V_mem), understanding their regulatory roles in tissue and organ development, and exploring their therapeutic potential in diseases. In this work we propose an experiment using Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) framework together with lab automation techniques for real-time manipulation of bioelectric signals to guide tissue regeneration and morphogenesis. The proposed framework should interact continuously with biological systems, adapting strategies based on direct biological feedback. Combining DRL with real-time measurement techniques -- such as optogenetics, voltage-sensitive dyes, fluorescent reporters, and advanced microscopy -- could provide a comprehensive platform for precise bioelectric control, leading to improved understanding of bioelectric mechanisms in morphogenesis, quantitative bioelectric models, identification of minimal experimental setups, and advancements in bioelectric modulation techniques relevant to regenerative medicine and cancer therapy. Ultimately, this research aims to utilize bioelectric signaling to develop new biomedical and bioengineering applications.





## DeepMesh: Auto-Regressive Artist-mesh Creation with Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.15265v1
- **Authors**: ['Ruowen Zhao', 'Junliang Ye', 'Zhengyi Wang', 'Guangce Liu', 'Yiwen Chen', 'Yikai Wang', 'Jun Zhu']
- **Abstrat**: Triangle meshes play a crucial role in 3D applications for efficient manipulation and rendering. While auto-regressive methods generate structured meshes by predicting discrete vertex tokens, they are often constrained by limited face counts and mesh incompleteness. To address these challenges, we propose DeepMesh, a framework that optimizes mesh generation through two key innovations: (1) an efficient pre-training strategy incorporating a novel tokenization algorithm, along with improvements in data curation and processing, and (2) the introduction of Reinforcement Learning (RL) into 3D mesh generation to achieve human preference alignment via Direct Preference Optimization (DPO). We design a scoring standard that combines human evaluation with 3D metrics to collect preference pairs for DPO, ensuring both visual appeal and geometric accuracy. Conditioned on point clouds and images, DeepMesh generates meshes with intricate details and precise topology, outperforming state-of-the-art methods in both precision and quality. Project page: https://zhaorw02.github.io/DeepMesh/





## Tapered Off-Policy REINFORCE: Stable and efficient reinforcement learning for LLMs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.14286v2
- **Authors**: ['Nicolas Le Roux', 'Marc G. Bellemare', 'Jonathan Lebensold', 'Arnaud Bergeron', 'Joshua Greaves', 'Alex Fréchette', 'Carolyne Pelletier', 'Eric Thibodeau-Laufer', 'Sándor Toth', 'Sam Work']
- **Abstrat**: We propose a new algorithm for fine-tuning large language models using reinforcement learning. Tapered Off-Policy REINFORCE (TOPR) uses an asymmetric, tapered variant of importance sampling to speed up learning while maintaining stable learning dynamics, even without the use of KL regularization. TOPR can be applied in a fully offline fashion, allows the handling of positive and negative examples in a unified framework, and benefits from the implementational simplicity that is typical of Monte Carlo algorithms. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach with a series of experiments on the GSM8K and MATH reasoning benchmarks, finding performance gains for training both a model for solution generation and as a generative verifier. We show that properly leveraging positive and negative examples alike in the off-policy regime simultaneously increases test-time accuracy and training data efficiency, all the while avoiding the ``wasted inference'' that comes with discarding negative examples. We find that this advantage persists over multiple iterations of training and can be amplified by dataset curation techniques, enabling us to match 70B-parameter model performance with 8B language models. As a corollary to this work, we find that REINFORCE's baseline parameter plays an important and unexpected role in defining dataset composition in the presence of negative examples, and is consequently critical in driving off-policy performance.





## Sample Efficient Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback via Active Exploration
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.00267v2
- **Authors**: ['Viraj Mehta', 'Syrine Belakaria', 'Vikramjeet Das', 'Ojash Neopane', 'Yijia Dai', 'Ilija Bogunovic', 'Barbara Engelhardt', 'Stefano Ermon', 'Jeff Schneider', 'Willie Neiswanger']
- **Abstrat**: Preference-based feedback is important for many applications in machine learning where evaluation of a reward function is not feasible. Notable recent examples arise in preference alignment for large language models, including in reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) and direct preference optimization (DPO). For many applications of preference alignment, the cost of acquiring human feedback can be substantial. In this work, we take advantage of the fact that one can often choose contexts at which to obtain human feedback to most efficiently identify a good policy, and formalize the setting as an active contextual dueling bandit problem. We propose an active exploration algorithm to efficiently select the data and provide theoretical proof that it has a polynomial worst-case regret bound. We extend the setting and methodology for practical use in preference alignment of large language models. We provide two extensions, an online and an offline approach. Our method outperforms the baselines with limited samples of human preferences on several language models and four real-world datasets including two new datasets that we contribute to the literature.





## MedVLM-R1: Incentivizing Medical Reasoning Capability of Vision-Language Models (VLMs) via Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.19634v2
- **Authors**: ['Jiazhen Pan', 'Che Liu', 'Junde Wu', 'Fenglin Liu', 'Jiayuan Zhu', 'Hongwei Bran Li', 'Chen Chen', 'Cheng Ouyang', 'Daniel Rueckert']
- **Abstrat**: Reasoning is a critical frontier for advancing medical image analysis, where transparency and trustworthiness play a central role in both clinician trust and regulatory approval. Although Medical Visual Language Models (VLMs) show promise for radiological tasks, most existing VLMs merely produce final answers without revealing the underlying reasoning. To address this gap, we introduce MedVLM-R1, a medical VLM that explicitly generates natural language reasoning to enhance transparency and trustworthiness. Instead of relying on supervised fine-tuning (SFT), which often suffers from overfitting to training distributions and fails to foster genuine reasoning, MedVLM-R1 employs a reinforcement learning framework that incentivizes the model to discover human-interpretable reasoning paths without using any reasoning references. Despite limited training data (600 visual question answering samples) and model parameters (2B), MedVLM-R1 boosts accuracy from 55.11% to 78.22% across MRI, CT, and X-ray benchmarks, outperforming larger models trained on over a million samples. It also demonstrates robust domain generalization under out-of-distribution tasks. By unifying medical image analysis with explicit reasoning, MedVLM-R1 marks a pivotal step toward trustworthy and interpretable AI in clinical practice. Inference model is available at: https://huggingface.co/JZPeterPan/MedVLM-R1.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning