# reinforcement learning
## Polynomial-Time Approximability of Constrained Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07764v1
- **Authors**: ['Jeremy McMahan']
- **Abstrat**: We study the computational complexity of approximating general constrained Markov decision processes. Our primary contribution is the design of a polynomial time $(0,\epsilon)$-additive bicriteria approximation algorithm for finding optimal constrained policies across a broad class of recursively computable constraints, including almost-sure, chance, expectation, and their anytime variants. Matching lower bounds imply our approximation guarantees are optimal so long as $P \neq NP$. The generality of our approach results in answers to several long-standing open complexity questions in the constrained reinforcement learning literature. Specifically, we are the first to prove polynomial-time approximability for the following settings: policies under chance constraints, deterministic policies under multiple expectation constraints, policies under non-homogeneous constraints (i.e., constraints of different types), and policies under constraints for continuous-state processes.





## Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback with Active Queries
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09401v2
- **Authors**: ['Kaixuan Ji', 'Jiafan He', 'Quanquan Gu']
- **Abstrat**: Aligning large language models (LLM) with human preference plays a key role in building modern generative models and can be achieved by reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF). Despite their superior performance, current RLHF approaches often require a large amount of human-labelled preference data, which is expensive to collect. In this paper, inspired by the success of active learning, we address this problem by proposing query-efficient RLHF methods. We first formalize the alignment problem as a contextual dueling bandit problem and design an active-query-based proximal policy optimization (APPO) algorithm with an $\tilde{O}(d^2/\Delta)$ instance-dependent regret bound and an $\tilde{O}(d^2/\Delta^2)$ query complexity, where $d$ is the dimension of feature space and $\Delta$ is the sub-optimality gap over all the contexts. We then propose ADPO, a practical version of our algorithm based on direct preference optimization (DPO) and apply it to fine-tuning LLMs. Our experiments show that ADPO, while only making about half of queries for human preference, matches the performance of the state-of-the-art DPO method.





## Training Language Models to Reason Efficiently
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.04463v2
- **Authors**: ['Daman Arora', 'Andrea Zanette']
- **Abstrat**: Scaling model size and training data has led to great advances in the performance of Large Language Models (LLMs). However, the diminishing returns of this approach necessitate alternative methods to improve model capabilities, particularly in tasks requiring advanced reasoning. Large reasoning models, which leverage long chain-of-thoughts, bring unprecedented breakthroughs in problem-solving capabilities but at a substantial deployment cost associated to longer generations. Reducing inference costs is crucial for the economic feasibility, user experience, and environmental sustainability of these models.   In this work, we propose to train large reasoning models to reason efficiently. More precisely, we use reinforcement learning (RL) to train reasoning models to dynamically allocate inference-time compute based on task complexity. Our method incentivizes models to minimize unnecessary computational overhead while maintaining accuracy, thereby achieving substantial efficiency gains. It enables the derivation of a family of reasoning models with varying efficiency levels, controlled via a single hyperparameter. Experiments on two open-weight large reasoning models demonstrate significant reductions in inference cost while preserving most of the accuracy.





## Novelty Detection in Reinforcement Learning with World Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2310.08731v3
- **Authors**: ['Geigh Zollicoffer', 'Kenneth Eaton', 'Jonathan Balloch', 'Julia Kim', 'Wei Zhou', 'Robert Wright', 'Mark O. Riedl']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning (RL) using world models has found significant recent successes. However, when a sudden change to world mechanics or properties occurs then agent performance and reliability can dramatically decline. We refer to the sudden change in visual properties or state transitions as novelties. Implementing novelty detection within generated world model frameworks is a crucial task for protecting the agent when deployed. In this paper, we propose straightforward bounding approaches to incorporate novelty detection into world model RL agents, by utilizing the misalignment of the world model's hallucinated states and the true observed states as an anomaly score. We provide effective approaches to detecting novelties in a distribution of transitions learned by an agent in a world model. Finally, we show the advantage of our work in a novel environment compared to traditional machine learning novelty detection methods as well as currently accepted RL focused novelty detection algorithms.





## DPO Meets PPO: Reinforced Token Optimization for RLHF
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.18922v3
- **Authors**: ['Han Zhong', 'Zikang Shan', 'Guhao Feng', 'Wei Xiong', 'Xinle Cheng', 'Li Zhao', 'Di He', 'Jiang Bian', 'Liwei Wang']
- **Abstrat**: In the classical Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) framework, Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) is employed to learn from sparse, sentence-level rewards -- a challenging scenario in traditional deep reinforcement learning. Despite the great successes of PPO in the alignment of large language models, its open-source implementation is still largely sub-optimal. To address these issues, we introduce a framework that models RLHF problems as a Markov decision process (MDP), enabling the capture of fine-grained token-wise information. Under this framework, we introduce an algorithm Reinforced Token Optimization (\texttt{RTO}), which learns the token-wise reward function from preference data and performs policy optimization based on this learned token-wise reward signal. Theoretically, \texttt{RTO} is proven to have the capability of finding the near-optimal policy sample-efficiently. For its practical implementation, \texttt{RTO} innovatively integrates Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) and PPO. DPO, originally derived from sparse sentence rewards, surprisingly provides us with a token-wise characterization of response quality, which is seamlessly incorporated into our subsequent PPO training stage. Extensive experiments demonstrate that \texttt{RTO} performs better than PPO and other direct preference learning algorithms. In particular, RTO outperforms PPO by 7.5 points on the AlpacaEval 2 benchmark and by 4.1 points on Arena-Hard. Our code and models are available at \href{https://github.com/zkshan2002/RTO}{https://github.com/zkshan2002/RTO}.





## Near-Optimal Sample Complexity in Reward-Free Kernel-Based Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07715v1
- **Authors**: ['Aya Kayal', 'Sattar Vakili', 'Laura Toni', 'Alberto Bernacchia']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement Learning (RL) problems are being considered under increasingly more complex structures. While tabular and linear models have been thoroughly explored, the analytical study of RL under nonlinear function approximation, especially kernel-based models, has recently gained traction for their strong representational capacity and theoretical tractability. In this context, we examine the question of statistical efficiency in kernel-based RL within the reward-free RL framework, specifically asking: how many samples are required to design a near-optimal policy? Existing work addresses this question under restrictive assumptions about the class of kernel functions. We first explore this question by assuming a generative model, then relax this assumption at the cost of increasing the sample complexity by a factor of H, the length of the episode. We tackle this fundamental problem using a broad class of kernels and a simpler algorithm compared to prior work. Our approach derives new confidence intervals for kernel ridge regression, specific to our RL setting, which may be of broader applicability. We further validate our theoretical findings through simulations.





## SurgicAI: A Hierarchical Platform for Fine-Grained Surgical Policy Learning and Benchmarking
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.13865v3
- **Authors**: ['Jin Wu', 'Haoying Zhou', 'Peter Kazanzides', 'Adnan Munawar', 'Anqi Liu']
- **Abstrat**: Despite advancements in robotic-assisted surgery, automating complex tasks like suturing remain challenging due to the need for adaptability and precision. Learning-based approaches, particularly reinforcement learning (RL) and imitation learning (IL), require realistic simulation environments for efficient data collection. However, current platforms often include only relatively simple, non-dexterous manipulations and lack the flexibility required for effective learning and generalization.   We introduce SurgicAI, a novel platform for development and benchmarking addressing these challenges by providing the flexibility to accommodate both modular subtasks and more importantly task decomposition in RL-based surgical robotics. Compatible with the da Vinci Surgical System, SurgicAI offers a standardized pipeline for collecting and utilizing expert demonstrations. It supports deployment of multiple RL and IL approaches, and the training of both singular and compositional subtasks in suturing scenarios, featuring high dexterity and modularization. Meanwhile, SurgicAI sets clear metrics and benchmarks for the assessment of learned policies. We implemented and evaluated multiple RL and IL algorithms on SurgicAI. Our detailed benchmark analysis underscores SurgicAI's potential to advance policy learning in surgical robotics. Details: https://github.com/surgical-robotics-ai/SurgicAI





## Model Surgery: Modulating LLM's Behavior Via Simple Parameter Editing
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.08770v2
- **Authors**: ['Huanqian Wang', 'Yang Yue', 'Rui Lu', 'Jingxin Shi', 'Andrew Zhao', 'Shenzhi Wang', 'Shiji Song', 'Gao Huang']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated great potential as generalist assistants, showcasing powerful task understanding and problem-solving capabilities. To deploy LLMs as AI assistants, it is crucial that these models exhibit desirable behavioral traits, such as non-toxicity and resilience against jailbreak attempts. Current approaches for detoxification or preventing jailbreaking usually involve Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) or Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF), which requires finetuning billions of parameters through gradient descent with substantial computational cost. Furthermore, models modified through SFT and RLHF may deviate from the pretrained models, potentially leading to a degradation in foundational LLM capabilities. In this paper, we observe that surprisingly, directly editing a small subset of parameters can effectively modulate specific behaviors of LLMs, such as detoxification and resistance to jailbreaking, with only inference-level computational resources. Experiments demonstrate that in the detoxification task, our approach achieves reductions of up to 90.0% in toxicity on the RealToxicityPrompts dataset and 49.2% on ToxiGen, while maintaining the LLM's general capabilities in areas such as common sense, question answering, and mathematics





## Distributed Value Decomposition Networks with Networked Agents
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07635v1
- **Authors**: ['Guilherme S. Varela', 'Alberto Sardinha', 'Francisco S. Melo']
- **Abstrat**: We investigate the problem of distributed training under partial observability, whereby cooperative multi-agent reinforcement learning agents (MARL) maximize the expected cumulative joint reward. We propose distributed value decomposition networks (DVDN) that generate a joint Q-function that factorizes into agent-wise Q-functions. Whereas the original value decomposition networks rely on centralized training, our approach is suitable for domains where centralized training is not possible and agents must learn by interacting with the physical environment in a decentralized manner while communicating with their peers. DVDN overcomes the need for centralized training by locally estimating the shared objective. We contribute with two innovative algorithms, DVDN and DVDN (GT), for the heterogeneous and homogeneous agents settings respectively. Empirically, both algorithms approximate the performance of value decomposition networks, in spite of the information loss during communication, as demonstrated in ten MARL tasks in three standard environments.





## NeoRL: Efficient Exploration for Nonepisodic RL
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.01175v4
- **Authors**: ['Bhavya Sukhija', 'Lenart Treven', 'Florian Dörfler', 'Stelian Coros', 'Andreas Krause']
- **Abstrat**: We study the problem of nonepisodic reinforcement learning (RL) for nonlinear dynamical systems, where the system dynamics are unknown and the RL agent has to learn from a single trajectory, i.e., without resets. We propose Nonepisodic Optimistic RL (NeoRL), an approach based on the principle of optimism in the face of uncertainty. NeoRL uses well-calibrated probabilistic models and plans optimistically w.r.t. the epistemic uncertainty about the unknown dynamics. Under continuity and bounded energy assumptions on the system, we provide a first-of-its-kind regret bound of $O(\Gamma_T \sqrt{T})$ for general nonlinear systems with Gaussian process dynamics. We compare NeoRL to other baselines on several deep RL environments and empirically demonstrate that NeoRL achieves the optimal average cost while incurring the least regret.





## Evolution of cooperation in a bimodal mixture of conditional cooperators
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07537v1
- **Authors**: ['Chenyang Zhao', 'Xinshi Feng', 'Guozhong Zheng', 'Weiran Cai', 'Jiqiang Zhang', 'Li Chen']
- **Abstrat**: Extensive behavioral experiments reveal that conditional cooperation is a prevalent phenomenon. Previous game-theoretical studies have predominantly relied on hard-manner models, where cooperation is triggered only upon reaching a specific threshold. However, this approach contrasts with the observed flexibility of human behavior, where individuals adapt their strategies dynamically based on their surroundings. To capture this adaptability, we introduce a soft form of conditional cooperation by integrating the Q-learning algorithm from reinforcement learning. In this framework, players not only reciprocate mutual cooperation but may also defect in highly cooperative environments or cooperate in less cooperative settings to maximize rewards. To explore the effects of hard and soft conditional cooperators, we examine their interactions in two scenarios: structural mixture (SM) and probabilistic mixture (PM), where the two behavioral modes are fixed and probabilistically adopted, respectively. In SM, hard conditional cooperators enhance cooperation when the threshold is low but hinder it otherwise. Surprisingly, in PM, the cooperation prevalence exhibits two first-order phase transitions as the probability is varied, leading to high, low, and vanishing levels of cooperation. Analysis of Q-tables offers insights into the "psychological shifts" of soft conditional cooperators and the overall evolutionary dynamics. Model extensions confirm the robustness of our findings. These results highlight the novel complexities arising from the diversity of conditional cooperators.





## Scaling Off-Policy Reinforcement Learning with Batch and Weight Normalization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07523v1
- **Authors**: ['Daniel Palenicek', 'Florian Vogt', 'Jan Peters']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning has achieved significant milestones, but sample efficiency remains a bottleneck for real-world applications. Recently, CrossQ has demonstrated state-of-the-art sample efficiency with a low update-to-data (UTD) ratio of 1. In this work, we explore CrossQ's scaling behavior with higher UTD ratios. We identify challenges in the training dynamics, which are emphasized by higher UTD ratios. To address these, we integrate weight normalization into the CrossQ framework, a solution that stabilizes training, has been shown to prevent potential loss of plasticity and keeps the effective learning rate constant. Our proposed approach reliably scales with increasing UTD ratios, achieving competitive performance across 25 challenging continuous control tasks on the DeepMind Control Suite and Myosuite benchmarks, notably the complex dog and humanoid environments. This work eliminates the need for drastic interventions, such as network resets, and offers a simple yet robust pathway for improving sample efficiency and scalability in model-free reinforcement learning.





## MAPF-GPT: Imitation Learning for Multi-Agent Pathfinding at Scale
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.00134v4
- **Authors**: ['Anton Andreychuk', 'Konstantin Yakovlev', 'Aleksandr Panov', 'Alexey Skrynnik']
- **Abstrat**: Multi-agent pathfinding (MAPF) is a problem that generally requires finding collision-free paths for multiple agents in a shared environment. Solving MAPF optimally, even under restrictive assumptions, is NP-hard, yet efficient solutions for this problem are critical for numerous applications, such as automated warehouses and transportation systems. Recently, learning-based approaches to MAPF have gained attention, particularly those leveraging deep reinforcement learning. Typically, such learning-based MAPF solvers are augmented with additional components like single-agent planning or communication. Orthogonally, in this work we rely solely on imitation learning that leverages a large dataset of expert MAPF solutions and transformer-based neural network to create a foundation model for MAPF called MAPF-GPT. The latter is capable of generating actions without additional heuristics or communication. MAPF-GPT demonstrates zero-shot learning abilities when solving the MAPF problems that are not present in the training dataset. We show that MAPF-GPT notably outperforms the current best-performing learnable MAPF solvers on a diverse range of problem instances and is computationally efficient during inference.





## Mind the Gap: Towards Generalizable Autonomous Penetration Testing via Domain Randomization and Meta-Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.04078v2
- **Authors**: ['Shicheng Zhou', 'Jingju Liu', 'Yuliang Lu', 'Jiahai Yang', 'Yue Zhang', 'Jie Chen']
- **Abstrat**: With increasing numbers of vulnerabilities exposed on the internet, autonomous penetration testing (pentesting) has emerged as a promising research area. Reinforcement learning (RL) is a natural fit for studying this topic. However, two key challenges limit the applicability of RL-based autonomous pentesting in real-world scenarios: (a) training environment dilemma --training agents in simulated environments is sample-efficient while ensuring their realism remains challenging; (b) poor generalization ability -- agents' policies often perform poorly when transferred to unseen scenarios, with even slight changes potentially causing significant generalization gap. To this end, we propose GAP, a generalizable autonomous pentesting framework that aims to realizes efficient policy training in realistic environments and train generalizable agents capable of drawing inferences about other cases from one instance. GAP introduces a Real-to-Sim-to-Real pipeline that (a) enables end-to-end policy learning in unknown real environments while constructing realistic simulations; (b) improves agents' generalization ability by leveraging domain randomization and meta-RL learning.Specially, we are among the first to apply domain randomization in autonomous pentesting and propose a large language model-powered domain randomization method for synthetic environment generation. We further apply meta-RL to improve agents' generalization ability in unseen environments by leveraging synthetic environments. The combination of two methods effectively bridges the generalization gap and improves agents' policy adaptation performance.Experiments are conducted on various vulnerable virtual machines, with results showing that GAP can enable policy learning in various realistic environments, achieve zero-shot policy transfer in similar environments, and realize rapid policy adaptation in dissimilar environments.





## Logarithmic Regret for Online KL-Regularized Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07460v1
- **Authors**: ['Heyang Zhao', 'Chenlu Ye', 'Wei Xiong', 'Quanquan Gu', 'Tong Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: Recent advances in Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) have shown that KL-regularization plays a pivotal role in improving the efficiency of RL fine-tuning for large language models (LLMs). Despite its empirical advantage, the theoretical difference between KL-regularized RL and standard RL remains largely under-explored. While there is a recent line of work on the theoretical analysis of KL-regularized objective in decision making \citep{xiong2024iterative, xie2024exploratory,zhao2024sharp}, these analyses either reduce to the traditional RL setting or rely on strong coverage assumptions. In this paper, we propose an optimism-based KL-regularized online contextual bandit algorithm, and provide a novel analysis of its regret. By carefully leveraging the benign optimization landscape induced by the KL-regularization and the optimistic reward estimation, our algorithm achieves an $\mathcal{O}\big(\eta\log (N_{\mathcal R} T)\cdot d_{\mathcal R}\big)$ logarithmic regret bound, where $\eta, N_{\mathcal R},T,d_{\mathcal R}$ denote the KL-regularization parameter, the cardinality of the reward function class, number of rounds, and the complexity of the reward function class. Furthermore, we extend our algorithm and analysis to reinforcement learning by developing a novel decomposition over transition steps and also obtain a similar logarithmic regret bound.





## Sharp Analysis for KL-Regularized Contextual Bandits and RLHF
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.04625v2
- **Authors**: ['Heyang Zhao', 'Chenlu Ye', 'Quanquan Gu', 'Tong Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: Reverse-Kullback-Leibler (KL) regularization has emerged to be a predominant technique used to enhance policy optimization in reinforcement learning (RL) and reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), which forces the learned policy to stay close to a reference policy. While the effectiveness and necessity of KL-regularization have been empirically demonstrated in various practical scenarios, current theoretical analysis of KL-regularized RLHF still obtains the same $\mathcal{O}(1 / \epsilon^2)$ sample complexity as problems without KL-regularization. To understand the fundamental distinction between policy learning objectives with KL-regularization and ones without KL-regularization, we are the first to theoretically demonstrate the power of KL-regularization by providing a sharp analysis for KL-regularized contextual bandits and RLHF, revealing an $\mathcal{O}(1 / \epsilon)$ sample complexity when $\epsilon$ is sufficiently small.   We further explore the role of data coverage in contextual bandits and RLHF. While the coverage assumption is commonly employed in offline RLHF to link the samples from the reference policy to the optimal policy, often at the cost of a multiplicative dependence on the coverage coefficient, its impact on the sample complexity of online RLHF remains unclear. Previous theoretical analyses of online RLHF typically require explicit exploration and additional structural assumptions on the reward function class. In contrast, we show that with sufficient coverage from the reference policy, a simple two-stage mixed sampling strategy can achieve a sample complexity with only an additive dependence on the coverage coefficient. Our results provide a comprehensive understanding of the roles of KL-regularization and data coverage in RLHF, shedding light on the design of more efficient RLHF algorithms.





## Towards bandit-based prompt-tuning for in-the-wild foundation agents
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.06358v2
- **Authors**: ['Finn Rietz', 'Oleg Smirnov', 'Sara Karimi', 'Lele Cao']
- **Abstrat**: Prompting has emerged as the dominant paradigm for adapting large, pre-trained transformer-based models to downstream tasks. The Prompting Decision Transformer (PDT) enables large-scale, multi-task offline reinforcement learning pre-training by leveraging stochastic trajectory prompts to identify the target task. However, these prompts are sampled uniformly from expert demonstrations, overlooking a critical limitation: Not all prompts are equally informative for differentiating between tasks. To address this, we propose an inference time bandit-based prompt-tuning framework that explores and optimizes trajectory prompt selection to enhance task performance. Our experiments indicate not only clear performance gains due to bandit-based prompt-tuning, but also better sample complexity, scalability, and prompt space exploration compared to prompt-tuning baselines.





## Towards a Formal Theory of the Need for Competence via Computational Intrinsic Motivation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07423v1
- **Authors**: ['Erik M. Lintunen', 'Nadia M. Ady', 'Sebastian Deterding', 'Christian Guckelsberger']
- **Abstrat**: Computational models offer powerful tools for formalising psychological theories, making them both testable and applicable in digital contexts. However, they remain little used in the study of motivation within psychology. We focus on the "need for competence", postulated as a key basic human need within Self-Determination Theory (SDT) -- arguably the most influential psychological framework for studying intrinsic motivation (IM). The need for competence is treated as a single construct across SDT texts. Yet, recent research has identified multiple, ambiguously defined facets of competence in SDT. We propose that these inconsistencies may be alleviated by drawing on computational models from the field of artificial intelligence, specifically from the domain of reinforcement learning (RL). By aligning the aforementioned facets of competence -- effectance, skill use, task performance, and capacity growth -- with existing RL formalisms, we provide a foundation for advancing competence-related theory in SDT and motivational psychology more broadly. The formalisms reveal underlying preconditions that SDT fails to make explicit, demonstrating how computational models can improve our understanding of IM. Additionally, our work can support a cycle of theory development by inspiring new computational models formalising aspects of the theory, which can then be tested empirically to refine the theory. While our research lays a promising foundation, empirical studies of these models in both humans and machines are needed, inviting collaboration across disciplines.





## Optimality in importance sampling: a gentle survey
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.07396v1
- **Authors**: ['Fernando Llorente', 'Luca Martino']
- **Abstrat**: The performance of the Monte Carlo sampling methods relies on the crucial choice of a proposal density. The notion of optimality is fundamental to design suitable adaptive procedures of the proposal density within Monte Carlo schemes. This work is an exhaustive review around the concept of optimality in importance sampling. Several frameworks are described and analyzed, such as the marginal likelihood approximation for model selection, the use of multiple proposal densities, a sequence of tempered posteriors, and noisy scenarios including the applications to approximate Bayesian computation (ABC) and reinforcement learning, to name a few. Some theoretical and empirical comparisons are also provided.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Swept Volume-Aware Trajectory Planning and MPC Tracking for Multi-Axle Swerve-Drive AMRs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2412.16875v2
- **Authors**: ['Tianxin Hu', 'Shenghai Yuan', 'Ruofei Bai', 'Xinghang Xu', 'Yuwen Liao', 'Fen Liu', 'Lihua Xie']
- **Abstrat**: Multi-axle autonomous mobile robots (AMRs) are set to revolutionize the future of robotics in logistics. As the backbone of next-generation solutions, these robots face a critical challenge: managing and minimizing the swept volume during turns while maintaining precise control. Traditional systems designed for standard vehicles often struggle with the complex dynamics of multi-axle configurations, leading to inefficiency and increased safety risk in confined spaces. Our innovative framework overcomes these limitations by combining swept volume minimization with Signed Distance Field (SDF) path planning and model predictive control (MPC) for independent wheel steering. This approach not only plans paths with an awareness of the swept volume but actively minimizes it in real-time, allowing each axle to follow a precise trajectory while significantly reducing the space the vehicle occupies. By predicting future states and adjusting the turning radius of each wheel, our method enhances both maneuverability and safety, even in the most constrained environments. Unlike previous works, our solution goes beyond basic path calculation and tracking, offering real-time path optimization with minimal swept volume and efficient individual axle control. To our knowledge, this is the first comprehensive approach to tackle these challenges, delivering life-saving improvements in control, efficiency, and safety for multi-axle AMRs. Furthermore, we will open-source our work to foster collaboration and enable others to advance safer, more efficient autonomous systems.





## Safe Interval RRT* for Scalable Multi-Robot Path Planning in Continuous Space
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01752v3
- **Authors**: ['Joonyeol Sim', 'Joonkyung Kim', 'Changjoo Nam']
- **Abstrat**: In this paper, we consider the problem of Multi-Robot Path Planning (MRPP) in continuous space. The difficulty of the problem arises from the extremely large search space caused by the combinatorial nature of the problem and the continuous state space. We propose a two-level approach where the low level is a sampling-based planner Safe Interval RRT* (SI-RRT*) that finds a collision-free trajectory for individual robots. The high level can use any method that can resolve inter-robot conflicts where we employ two representative methods that are Prioritized Planning (SI-CPP) and Conflict Based Search (SI-CCBS). Experimental results show that SI-RRT* can quickly find a high-quality solution with a few samples. SI-CPP exhibits improved scalability while SI-CCBS produces higher-quality solutions compared to the state-of-the-art planners for continuous space.





## MAPF-GPT: Imitation Learning for Multi-Agent Pathfinding at Scale
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.00134v4
- **Authors**: ['Anton Andreychuk', 'Konstantin Yakovlev', 'Aleksandr Panov', 'Alexey Skrynnik']
- **Abstrat**: Multi-agent pathfinding (MAPF) is a problem that generally requires finding collision-free paths for multiple agents in a shared environment. Solving MAPF optimally, even under restrictive assumptions, is NP-hard, yet efficient solutions for this problem are critical for numerous applications, such as automated warehouses and transportation systems. Recently, learning-based approaches to MAPF have gained attention, particularly those leveraging deep reinforcement learning. Typically, such learning-based MAPF solvers are augmented with additional components like single-agent planning or communication. Orthogonally, in this work we rely solely on imitation learning that leverages a large dataset of expert MAPF solutions and transformer-based neural network to create a foundation model for MAPF called MAPF-GPT. The latter is capable of generating actions without additional heuristics or communication. MAPF-GPT demonstrates zero-shot learning abilities when solving the MAPF problems that are not present in the training dataset. We show that MAPF-GPT notably outperforms the current best-performing learnable MAPF solvers on a diverse range of problem instances and is computationally efficient during inference.




