# reinforcement learning
## Deep Reinforcement Learning-Based Optimization of Second-Life Battery Utilization in Electric Vehicles Charging Stations
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03412v1
- **Authors**: ['Rouzbeh Haghighi', 'Ali Hassan', 'Van-Hai Bui', 'Akhtar Hussain', 'Wencong Su']
- **Abstrat**: The rapid rise in electric vehicle (EV) adoption presents significant challenges in managing the vast number of retired EV batteries. Research indicates that second-life batteries (SLBs) from EVs typically retain considerable residual capacity, offering extended utility. These batteries can be effectively repurposed for use in EV charging stations (EVCS), providing a cost-effective alternative to new batteries and reducing overall planning costs. Integrating battery energy storage systems (BESS) with SLBs into EVCS is a promising strategy to alleviate system overload. However, efficient operation of EVCS with integrated BESS is hindered by uncertainties such as fluctuating EV arrival and departure times and variable power prices from the grid. This paper presents a deep reinforcement learning-based (DRL) planning framework for EV charging stations with BESS, leveraging SLBs. We employ the advanced soft actor-critic (SAC) approach, training the model on a year's worth of data to account for seasonal variations, including weekdays and holidays. A tailored reward function enables effective offline training, allowing real-time optimization of EVCS operations under uncertainty.





## Lightweight Authenticated Task Offloading in 6G-Cloud Vehicular Twin Networks
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03403v1
- **Authors**: ['Sarah Al-Shareeda', 'Fusun Ozguner', 'Keith Redmill', 'Trung Q. Duong', 'Berk Canberk']
- **Abstrat**: Task offloading management in 6G vehicular networks is crucial for maintaining network efficiency, particularly as vehicles generate substantial data. Integrating secure communication through authentication introduces additional computational and communication overhead, significantly impacting offloading efficiency and latency. This paper presents a unified framework incorporating lightweight Identity-Based Cryptographic (IBC) authentication into task offloading within cloud-based 6G Vehicular Twin Networks (VTNs). Utilizing Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) in Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL), our approach optimizes authenticated offloading decisions to minimize latency and enhance resource allocation. Performance evaluation under varying network sizes, task sizes, and data rates reveals that IBC authentication can reduce offloading efficiency by up to 50% due to the added overhead. Besides, increasing network size and task size can further reduce offloading efficiency by up to 91.7%. As a countermeasure, increasing the transmission data rate can improve the offloading performance by as much as 63%, even in the presence of authentication overhead. The code for the simulations and experiments detailed in this paper is available on GitHub for further reference and reproducibility [1].





## Energy-Efficient Flying LoRa Gateways: A Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning Approach
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03377v1
- **Authors**: ['Abdullahi Isa Ahmed', 'El Mehdi Amhoud']
- **Abstrat**: With the rapid development of next-generation Internet of Things (NG-IoT) networks, the increasing number of connected devices has led to a surge in power consumption. This rise in energy demand poses significant challenges to resource availability and raises sustainability concerns for large-scale IoT deployments. Efficient energy utilization in communication networks, particularly for power-constrained IoT devices, has thus become a critical area of research. In this paper, we deployed flying LoRa gateways (GWs) mounted on unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) to collect data from LoRa end devices (EDs) and transmit it to a central server. Our primary objective is to maximize the global system energy efficiency (EE) of wireless LoRa networks by joint optimization of transmission power (TP), spreading factor (SF), bandwidth (W), and ED association. To solve this challenging problem, we model the problem as a partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP), where each flying LoRa GW acts as a learning agent using a cooperative Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL) approach under centralized training and decentralized execution (CTDE). Simulation results demonstrate that our proposed method, based on the multi-agent proximal policy optimization (MAPPO) algorithm, significantly improves the global system EE and surpasses the conventional MARL schemes.





## Demystifying Long Chain-of-Thought Reasoning in LLMs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03373v1
- **Authors**: ['Edward Yeo', 'Yuxuan Tong', 'Morry Niu', 'Graham Neubig', 'Xiang Yue']
- **Abstrat**: Scaling inference compute enhances reasoning in large language models (LLMs), with long chains-of-thought (CoTs) enabling strategies like backtracking and error correction. Reinforcement learning (RL) has emerged as a crucial method for developing these capabilities, yet the conditions under which long CoTs emerge remain unclear, and RL training requires careful design choices. In this study, we systematically investigate the mechanics of long CoT reasoning, identifying the key factors that enable models to generate long CoT trajectories. Through extensive supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and RL experiments, we present four main findings: (1) While SFT is not strictly necessary, it simplifies training and improves efficiency; (2) Reasoning capabilities tend to emerge with increased training compute, but their development is not guaranteed, making reward shaping crucial for stabilizing CoT length growth; (3) Scaling verifiable reward signals is critical for RL. We find that leveraging noisy, web-extracted solutions with filtering mechanisms shows strong potential, particularly for out-of-distribution (OOD) tasks such as STEM reasoning; and (4) Core abilities like error correction are inherently present in base models, but incentivizing these skills effectively for complex tasks via RL demands significant compute, and measuring their emergence requires a nuanced approach. These insights provide practical guidance for optimizing training strategies to enhance long CoT reasoning in LLMs. Our code is available at: https://github.com/eddycmu/demystify-long-cot.





## Learning from Active Human Involvement through Proxy Value Propagation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03369v1
- **Authors**: ['Zhenghao Peng', 'Wenjie Mo', 'Chenda Duan', 'Quanyi Li', 'Bolei Zhou']
- **Abstrat**: Learning from active human involvement enables the human subject to actively intervene and demonstrate to the AI agent during training. The interaction and corrective feedback from human brings safety and AI alignment to the learning process. In this work, we propose a new reward-free active human involvement method called Proxy Value Propagation for policy optimization. Our key insight is that a proxy value function can be designed to express human intents, wherein state-action pairs in the human demonstration are labeled with high values, while those agents' actions that are intervened receive low values. Through the TD-learning framework, labeled values of demonstrated state-action pairs are further propagated to other unlabeled data generated from agents' exploration. The proxy value function thus induces a policy that faithfully emulates human behaviors. Human-in-the-loop experiments show the generality and efficiency of our method. With minimal modification to existing reinforcement learning algorithms, our method can learn to solve continuous and discrete control tasks with various human control devices, including the challenging task of driving in Grand Theft Auto V. Demo video and code are available at: https://metadriverse.github.io/pvp





## Geometric Structure and Polynomial-time Algorithm of Game Equilibria
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2401.00747v6
- **Authors**: ['Hongbo Sun', 'Chongkun Xia', 'Junbo Tan', 'Bo Yuan', 'Xueqian Wang', 'Bin Liang']
- **Abstrat**: Whether a PTAS (polynomial-time approximation scheme) exists for game equilibria has been an open question, and its absence has indications and consequences in three fields: the practicality of methods in algorithmic game theory, non-stationarity and curse of multiagency in MARL (multi-agent reinforcement learning), and the tractability of PPAD in computational complexity theory. In this paper, we formalize the game equilibrium problem as an optimization problem that splits into two subproblems with respect to policy and value function, which are solved respectively by interior point method and dynamic programming. Combining these two parts, we obtain an FPTAS (fully PTAS) for the weak approximation (approximating to an $\epsilon$-equilibrium) of any perfect equilibrium of any dynamic game, implying PPAD=FP since the weak approximation problem is PPAD-complete. In addition, we introduce a geometric object called equilibrium bundle, regarding which, first, perfect equilibria of dynamic games are formalized as zero points of its canonical section, second, the hybrid iteration of dynamic programming and interior point method is formalized as a line search on it, third, it derives the existence and oddness theorems as an extension of those of Nash equilibria. In experiment, the line search process is animated, and the method is tested on 2000 randomly generated dynamic games where it converges to a perfect equilibrium in every single case.





## BPS spectroscopy with reinforcement learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.14863v2
- **Authors**: ['Federico Carta', 'Asa Gauntlett', 'Finley Griffin', 'Yang-Hui He']
- **Abstrat**: We apply reinforcement learning (RL) to establish whether at a given position in the Coulomb branch of the moduli space of a 4d $\mathcal{N} = 2$ quantum field theory (QFT) the BPS spectrum is finite. If it is, we furthermore determine the full BPS spectrum at such point in moduli space. We demonstrate that using a RL model one can efficiently determine the suitable sequence of quiver mutations of the BPS quiver that will generate the full BPS spectrum. We analyse the performance of the RL model on random BPS quivers and show that it converges to a solution various orders of magnitude faster than a systematic brute-force scan. As a result, we show that our algorithm can be used to identify all minimal chambers of a given $\mathcal{N}=2$ QFT, a task previously intractable with computer scanning. As an example, we recover all minimal chambers of the $\text{SU}(2)$ $N_f = 4$ gauge theory, and discover new minimal chambers for theories that can be realized by IIB geometric engineering.





## Conditional Prediction by Simulation for Automated Driving
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03286v1
- **Authors**: ['Fabian Konstantinidis', 'Moritz Sackmann', 'Ulrich Hofmann', 'Christoph Stiller']
- **Abstrat**: Modular automated driving systems commonly handle prediction and planning as sequential, separate tasks, thereby prohibiting cooperative maneuvers. To enable cooperative planning, this work introduces a prediction model that models the conditional dependencies between trajectories. For this, predictions are generated by a microscopic traffic simulation, with the individual traffic participants being controlled by a realistic behavior model trained via Adversarial Inverse Reinforcement Learning. By assuming various candidate trajectories for the automated vehicle, we generate predictions conditioned on each of them. Furthermore, our approach allows the candidate trajectories to adapt dynamically during the prediction rollout. Several example scenarios are available at https://conditionalpredictionbysimulation.github.io/.





## Context in Public Health for Underserved Communities: A Bayesian Approach to Online Restless Bandits
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04933v3
- **Authors**: ['Biyonka Liang', 'Lily Xu', 'Aparna Taneja', 'Milind Tambe', 'Lucas Janson']
- **Abstrat**: Public health programs often provide interventions to encourage program adherence, and effectively allocating interventions is vital for producing the greatest overall health outcomes, especially in underserved communities where resources are limited. Such resource allocation problems are often modeled as restless multi-armed bandits (RMABs) with unknown underlying transition dynamics, hence requiring online reinforcement learning (RL). We present Bayesian Learning for Contextual RMABs (BCoR), an online RL approach for RMABs that novelly combines techniques in Bayesian modeling with Thompson sampling to flexibly model the complex RMAB settings present in public health program adherence problems, namely context and non-stationarity. BCoR's key strength is the ability to leverage shared information within and between arms to learn the unknown RMAB transition dynamics quickly in intervention-scarce settings with relatively short time horizons, which is common in public health applications. Empirically, BCoR achieves substantially higher finite-sample performance over a range of experimental settings, including a setting using real-world adherence data that was developed in collaboration with ARMMAN, an NGO in India which runs a large-scale maternal mHealth program, showcasing BCoR practical utility and potential for real-world deployment.





## Calibrated Unsupervised Anomaly Detection in Multivariate Time-series using Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03245v1
- **Authors**: ['Saba Sanami', 'Amir G. Aghdam']
- **Abstrat**: This paper investigates unsupervised anomaly detection in multivariate time-series data using reinforcement learning (RL) in the latent space of an autoencoder. A significant challenge is the limited availability of anomalous data, often leading to misclassifying anomalies as normal events, thus raising false negatives. RL can help overcome this limitation by promoting exploration and balancing exploitation during training, effectively preventing overfitting. Wavelet analysis is also utilized to enhance anomaly detection, enabling time-series data decomposition into both time and frequency domains. This approach captures anomalies at multiple resolutions, with wavelet coefficients extracted to detect both sudden and subtle shifts in the data, thereby refining the anomaly detection process. We calibrate the decision boundary by generating synthetic anomalies and embedding a supervised framework within the model. This supervised element aids the unsupervised learning process by fine-tuning the decision boundary and increasing the model's capacity to distinguish between normal and anomalous patterns effectively.





## LARM: Large Auto-Regressive Model for Long-Horizon Embodied Intelligence
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2405.17424v2
- **Authors**: ['Zhuoling Li', 'Xiaogang Xu', 'Zhenhua Xu', 'SerNam Lim', 'Hengshuang Zhao']
- **Abstrat**: Recent embodied agents are primarily built based on reinforcement learning (RL) or large language models (LLMs). Among them, RL agents are efficient for deployment but only perform very few tasks. By contrast, giant LLM agents (often more than 1000B parameters) present strong generalization while demanding enormous computing resources. In this work, we combine their advantages while avoiding the drawbacks by conducting the proposed referee RL on our developed large auto-regressive model (LARM). Specifically, LARM is built upon a lightweight LLM (fewer than 5B parameters) and directly outputs the next action to execute rather than text. We mathematically reveal that classic RL feedbacks vanish in long-horizon embodied exploration and introduce a giant LLM based referee to handle this reward vanishment during training LARM. In this way, LARM learns to complete diverse open-world tasks without human intervention. Especially, LARM successfully harvests enchanted diamond equipment in Minecraft, which demands significantly longer decision-making chains than the highest achievements of prior best methods.





## Underwater Soft Fin Flapping Motion with Deep Neural Network Based Surrogate Model
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03135v1
- **Authors**: ['Yuya Hamamatsu', 'Pavlo Kupyn', 'Roza Gkliva', 'Asko Ristolainen', 'Maarja Kruusmaa']
- **Abstrat**: This study presents a novel framework for precise force control of fin-actuated underwater robots by integrating a deep neural network (DNN)-based surrogate model with reinforcement learning (RL). To address the complex interactions with the underwater environment and the high experimental costs, a DNN surrogate model acts as a simulator for enabling efficient training for the RL agent. Additionally, grid-switching control is applied to select optimized models for specific force reference ranges, improving control accuracy and stability. Experimental results show that the RL agent, trained in the surrogate simulation, generates complex thrust motions and achieves precise control of a real soft fin actuator. This approach provides an efficient control solution for fin-actuated robots in challenging underwater environments.





## Double Distillation Network for Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03125v1
- **Authors**: ['Yang Zhou', 'Siying Wang', 'Wenyu Chen', 'Ruoning Zhang', 'Zhitong Zhao', 'Zixuan Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: Multi-agent reinforcement learning typically employs a centralized training-decentralized execution (CTDE) framework to alleviate the non-stationarity in environment. However, the partial observability during execution may lead to cumulative gap errors gathered by agents, impairing the training of effective collaborative policies. To overcome this challenge, we introduce the Double Distillation Network (DDN), which incorporates two distillation modules aimed at enhancing robust coordination and facilitating the collaboration process under constrained information. The external distillation module uses a global guiding network and a local policy network, employing distillation to reconcile the gap between global training and local execution. In addition, the internal distillation module introduces intrinsic rewards, drawn from state information, to enhance the exploration capabilities of agents. Extensive experiments demonstrate that DDN significantly improves performance across multiple scenarios.





## HiLo: Learning Whole-Body Human-like Locomotion with Motion Tracking Controller
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03122v1
- **Authors**: ['Qiyuan Zhang', 'Chenfan Weng', 'Guanwu Li', 'Fulai He', 'Yusheng Cai']
- **Abstrat**: Deep Reinforcement Learning (RL) has emerged as a promising method to develop humanoid robot locomotion controllers. Despite the robust and stable locomotion demonstrated by previous RL controllers, their behavior often lacks the natural and agile motion patterns necessary for human-centric scenarios. In this work, we propose HiLo (human-like locomotion with motion tracking), an effective framework designed to learn RL policies that perform human-like locomotion. The primary challenges of human-like locomotion are complex reward engineering and domain randomization. HiLo overcomes these issues by developing an RL-based motion tracking controller and simple domain randomization through random force injection and action delay. Within the framework of HiLo, the whole-body control problem can be decomposed into two components: One part is solved using an open-loop control method, while the residual part is addressed with RL policies. A distributional value function is also implemented to stabilize the training process by improving the estimation of cumulative rewards under perturbed dynamics. Our experiments demonstrate that the motion tracking controller trained using HiLo can perform natural and agile human-like locomotion while exhibiting resilience to external disturbances in real-world systems. Furthermore, we show that the motion patterns of humanoid robots can be adapted through the residual mechanism without fine-tuning, allowing quick adjustments to task requirements.





## Bellman Error Centering
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03104v1
- **Authors**: ['Xingguo Chen', 'Yu Gong', 'Shangdong Yang', 'Wenhao Wang']
- **Abstrat**: This paper revisits the recently proposed reward centering algorithms including simple reward centering (SRC) and value-based reward centering (VRC), and points out that SRC is indeed the reward centering, while VRC is essentially Bellman error centering (BEC). Based on BEC, we provide the centered fixpoint for tabular value functions, as well as the centered TD fixpoint for linear value function approximation. We design the on-policy CTD algorithm and the off-policy CTDC algorithm, and prove the convergence of both algorithms. Finally, we experimentally validate the stability of our proposed algorithms. Bellman error centering facilitates the extension to various reinforcement learning algorithms.





## Reveal the Mystery of DPO: The Connection between DPO and RL Algorithms
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03095v1
- **Authors**: ['Xuerui Su', 'Yue Wang', 'Jinhua Zhu', 'Mingyang Yi', 'Feng Xu', 'Zhiming Ma', 'Yuting Liu']
- **Abstrat**: With the rapid development of Large Language Models (LLMs), numerous Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) algorithms have been introduced to improve model safety and alignment with human preferences. These algorithms can be divided into two main frameworks based on whether they require an explicit reward (or value) function for training: actor-critic-based Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) and alignment-based Direct Preference Optimization (DPO). The mismatch between DPO and PPO, such as DPO's use of a classification loss driven by human-preferred data, has raised confusion about whether DPO should be classified as a Reinforcement Learning (RL) algorithm. To address these ambiguities, we focus on three key aspects related to DPO, RL, and other RLHF algorithms: (1) the construction of the loss function; (2) the target distribution at which the algorithm converges; (3) the impact of key components within the loss function. Specifically, we first establish a unified framework named UDRRA connecting these algorithms based on the construction of their loss functions. Next, we uncover their target policy distributions within this framework. Finally, we investigate the critical components of DPO to understand their impact on the convergence rate. Our work provides a deeper understanding of the relationship between DPO, RL, and other RLHF algorithms, offering new insights for improving existing algorithms.





## Revealing the Learning Process in Reinforcement Learning Agents Through Attention-Oriented Metrics
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.14324v2
- **Authors**: ['Charlotte Beylier', 'Simon M. Hofmann', 'Nico Scherf']
- **Abstrat**: The learning process of a reinforcement learning (RL) agent remains poorly understood beyond the mathematical formulation of its learning algorithm. To address this gap, we introduce attention-oriented metrics (ATOMs) to investigate the development of an RL agent's attention during training. In a controlled experiment, we tested ATOMs on three variations of a Pong game, each designed to teach the agent distinct behaviours, complemented by a behavioural assessment. ATOMs successfully delineate the attention patterns of an agent trained on each game variation, and that these differences in attention patterns translate into differences in the agent's behaviour. Through continuous monitoring of ATOMs during training, we observed that the agent's attention developed in phases, and that these phases were consistent across game variations. Overall, we believe that ATOM could help improve our understanding of the learning processes of RL agents and better understand the relationship between attention and learning.





## Optimizing Electric Vehicles Charging using Large Language Models and Graph Neural Networks
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03067v1
- **Authors**: ['Stavros Orfanoudakis', 'Peter Palensky', 'Pedro P. Vergara']
- **Abstrat**: Maintaining grid stability amid widespread electric vehicle (EV) adoption is vital for sustainable transportation. Traditional optimization methods and Reinforcement Learning (RL) approaches often struggle with the high dimensionality and dynamic nature of real-time EV charging, leading to sub-optimal solutions. To address these challenges, this study demonstrates that combining Large Language Models (LLMs), for sequence modeling, with Graph Neural Networks (GNNs), for relational information extraction, not only outperforms conventional EV smart charging methods, but also paves the way for entirely new research directions and innovative solutions.





## Brief analysis of DeepSeek R1 and its implications for Generative AI
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.02523v2
- **Authors**: ['Sarah Mercer', 'Samuel Spillard', 'Daniel P. Martin']
- **Abstrat**: In late January 2025, DeepSeek released their new reasoning model (DeepSeek R1); which was developed at a fraction of the cost yet remains competitive with OpenAI's models, despite the US's GPU export ban. This report discusses the model, and what its release means for the field of Generative AI more widely. We briefly discuss other models released from China in recent weeks, their similarities; innovative use of Mixture of Experts (MoE), Reinforcement Learning (RL) and clever engineering appear to be key factors in the capabilities of these models. This think piece has been written to a tight timescale, providing broad coverage of the topic, and serves as introductory material for those looking to understand the model's technical advancements, as well as its place in the ecosystem. Several further areas of research are identified.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Solving Drone Routing Problems with Quantum Computing: A Hybrid Approach Combining Quantum Annealing and Gate-Based Paradigms
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.18432v2
- **Authors**: ['Eneko Osaba', 'Pablo Miranda-Rodriguez', 'Andreas Oikonomakis', 'Matic Petrič', 'Alejandra Ruiz', 'Sebastian Bock', 'Michail-Alexandros Kourtis']
- **Abstrat**: This paper presents a novel hybrid approach to solving real-world drone routing problems by leveraging the capabilities of quantum computing. The proposed method, coined Quantum for Drone Routing (Q4DR), integrates the two most prominent paradigms in the field: quantum gate-based computing, through the Eclipse Qrisp programming language; and quantum annealers, by means of D-Wave System's devices. The algorithm is divided into two different phases: an initial clustering phase executed using a Quantum Approximate Optimization Algorithm (QAOA), and a routing phase employing quantum annealers. The efficacy of Q4DR is demonstrated through three use cases of increasing complexity, each incorporating real-world constraints such as asymmetric costs, forbidden paths, and itinerant charging points. This research contributes to the growing body of work in quantum optimization, showcasing the practical applications of quantum computing in logistics and route planning.





## Multi-Agent Path Finding under Limited Communication Range Constraint via Dynamic Leading
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.02770v2
- **Authors**: ['Hoang-Dung Bui', 'Erion Plaku', 'Gregoy J. Stein']
- **Abstrat**: This paper proposes a novel framework to handle a multi-agent path finding problem under a limited communication range constraint, where all agents must have a connected communication channel to the rest of the team. Many existing approaches to multi-agent path finding (e.g., leader-follower platooning) overcome computational challenges of planning in this domain by planning one agent at a time in a fixed order. However, fixed leader-follower approaches can become stuck during planning, limiting their practical utility in dense-clutter environments. To overcome this limitation, we develop dynamic leading multi-agent path finding, which allows for dynamic reselection of the leading agent during path planning whenever progress cannot be made. The experiments show the efficiency of our framework, which can handle up to 25 agents with more than 90% success-rate across five environment types where baselines routinely fail.





## iVISPAR -- An Interactive Visual-Spatial Reasoning Benchmark for VLMs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.03214v1
- **Authors**: ['Julius Mayer', 'Mohamad Ballout', 'Serwan Jassim', 'Farbod Nosrat Nezami', 'Elia Bruni']
- **Abstrat**: Vision-Language Models (VLMs) are known to struggle with spatial reasoning and visual alignment. To help overcome these limitations, we introduce iVISPAR, an interactive multi-modal benchmark designed to evaluate the spatial reasoning capabilities of VLMs acting as agents. iVISPAR is based on a variant of the sliding tile puzzle-a classic problem that demands logical planning, spatial awareness, and multi-step reasoning. The benchmark supports visual 2D, 3D, and text-based input modalities, enabling comprehensive assessments of VLMs' planning and reasoning skills. We evaluate a broad suite of state-of-the-art open-source and closed-source VLMs, comparing their performance while also providing optimal path solutions and a human baseline to assess the task's complexity and feasibility for humans. Results indicate that while some VLMs perform well on simple spatial tasks, they encounter difficulties with more complex configurations and problem properties. Notably, while VLMs generally perform better in 2D vision compared to 3D or text-based representations, they consistently fall short of human performance, illustrating the persistent challenge of visual alignment. This highlights critical gaps in current VLM capabilities, highlighting their limitations in achieving human-level cognition.




