# reinforcement learning
## Generating $π$-Functional Molecules Using STGG+ with Active Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14842v1
- **Authors**: ['Alexia Jolicoeur-Martineau', 'Yan Zhang', 'Boris Knyazev', 'Aristide Baratin', 'Cheng-Hao Liu']
- **Abstrat**: Generating novel molecules with out-of-distribution properties is a major challenge in molecular discovery. While supervised learning methods generate high-quality molecules similar to those in a dataset, they struggle to generalize to out-of-distribution properties. Reinforcement learning can explore new chemical spaces but often conducts 'reward-hacking' and generates non-synthesizable molecules. In this work, we address this problem by integrating a state-of-the-art supervised learning method, STGG+, in an active learning loop. Our approach iteratively generates, evaluates, and fine-tunes STGG+ to continuously expand its knowledge. We denote this approach STGG+AL. We apply STGG+AL to the design of organic $\pi$-functional materials, specifically two challenging tasks: 1) generating highly absorptive molecules characterized by high oscillator strength and 2) designing absorptive molecules with reasonable oscillator strength in the near-infrared (NIR) range. The generated molecules are validated and rationalized in-silico with time-dependent density functional theory. Our results demonstrate that our method is highly effective in generating novel molecules with high oscillator strength, contrary to existing methods such as reinforcement learning (RL) methods. We open-source our active-learning code along with our Conjugated-xTB dataset containing 2.9 million $\pi$-conjugated molecules and the function for approximating the oscillator strength and absorption wavelength (based on sTDA-xTB).





## Learning from Reward-Free Offline Data: A Case for Planning with Latent Dynamics Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14819v1
- **Authors**: ['Vlad Sobal', 'Wancong Zhang', 'Kynghyun Cho', 'Randall Balestriero', 'Tim G. J. Rudner', 'Yann LeCun']
- **Abstrat**: A long-standing goal in AI is to build agents that can solve a variety of tasks across different environments, including previously unseen ones. Two dominant approaches tackle this challenge: (i) reinforcement learning (RL), which learns policies through trial and error, and (ii) optimal control, which plans actions using a learned or known dynamics model. However, their relative strengths and weaknesses remain underexplored in the setting where agents must learn from offline trajectories without reward annotations. In this work, we systematically analyze the performance of different RL and control-based methods under datasets of varying quality. On the RL side, we consider goal-conditioned and zero-shot approaches. On the control side, we train a latent dynamics model using the Joint Embedding Predictive Architecture (JEPA) and use it for planning. We study how dataset properties-such as data diversity, trajectory quality, and environment variability-affect the performance of these approaches. Our results show that model-free RL excels when abundant, high-quality data is available, while model-based planning excels in generalization to novel environment layouts, trajectory stitching, and data-efficiency. Notably, planning with a latent dynamics model emerges as a promising approach for zero-shot generalization from suboptimal data.





## Addressing Rotational Learning Dynamics in Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.07976v2
- **Authors**: ['Baraah A. M. Sidahmed', 'Tatjana Chavdarova']
- **Abstrat**: Multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) has emerged as a powerful paradigm for solving complex problems through agents' cooperation and competition, finding widespread applications across domains. Despite its success, MARL faces a reproducibility crisis. We show that, in part, this issue is related to the rotational optimization dynamics arising from competing agents' objectives, and require methods beyond standard optimization algorithms. We reframe MARL approaches using Variational Inequalities (VIs), offering a unified framework to address such issues. Leveraging optimization techniques designed for VIs, we propose a general approach for integrating gradient-based VI methods capable of handling rotational dynamics into existing MARL algorithms. Empirical results demonstrate significant performance improvements across benchmarks. In zero-sum games, Rock--paper--scissors and Matching pennies, VI methods achieve better convergence to equilibrium strategies, and in the Multi-Agent Particle Environment: Predator-prey, they also enhance team coordination. These results underscore the transformative potential of advanced optimization techniques in MARL.





## Logic-RL: Unleashing LLM Reasoning with Rule-Based Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14768v1
- **Authors**: ['Tian Xie', 'Zitian Gao', 'Qingnan Ren', 'Haoming Luo', 'Yuqian Hong', 'Bryan Dai', 'Joey Zhou', 'Kai Qiu', 'Zhirong Wu', 'Chong Luo']
- **Abstrat**: Inspired by the success of DeepSeek-R1, we explore the potential of rule-based reinforcement learning (RL) in large reasoning models. To analyze reasoning dynamics, we use synthetic logic puzzles as training data due to their controllable complexity and straightforward answer verification. We make some key technical contributions that lead to effective and stable RL training: a system prompt that emphasizes the thinking and answering process, a stringent format reward function that penalizes outputs for taking shortcuts, and a straightforward training recipe that achieves stable convergence. Our 7B model develops advanced reasoning skills-such as reflection, verification, and summarization-that are absent from the logic corpus. Remarkably, after training on just 5K logic problems, it demonstrates generalization abilities to the challenging math benchmarks AIME and AMC.





## Reinforcement Learning with Graph Attention for Routing and Wavelength Assignment with Lightpath Reuse
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14741v1
- **Authors**: ['Michael Doherty', 'Alejandra Beghelli']
- **Abstrat**: Many works have investigated reinforcement learning (RL) for routing and spectrum assignment on flex-grid networks but only one work to date has examined RL for fixed-grid with flex-rate transponders, despite production systems using this paradigm. Flex-rate transponders allow existing lightpaths to accommodate new services, a task we term routing and wavelength assignment with lightpath reuse (RWA-LR). We re-examine this problem and present a thorough benchmarking of heuristic algorithms for RWA-LR, which are shown to have 6% increased throughput when candidate paths are ordered by number of hops, rather than total length. We train an RL agent for RWA-LR with graph attention networks for the policy and value functions to exploit the graph-structured data. We provide details of our methodology and open source all of our code for reproduction. We outperform the previous state-of-the-art RL approach by 2.5% (17.4 Tbps mean additional throughput) and the best heuristic by 1.2% (8.5 Tbps mean additional throughput). This marginal gain highlights the difficulty in learning effective RL policies on long horizon resource allocation tasks.





## XLand-100B: A Large-Scale Multi-Task Dataset for In-Context Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.08973v2
- **Authors**: ['Alexander Nikulin', 'Ilya Zisman', 'Alexey Zemtsov', 'Vladislav Kurenkov']
- **Abstrat**: Following the success of the in-context learning paradigm in large-scale language and computer vision models, the recently emerging field of in-context reinforcement learning is experiencing a rapid growth. However, its development has been held back by the lack of challenging benchmarks, as all the experiments have been carried out in simple environments and on small-scale datasets. We present XLand-100B, a large-scale dataset for in-context reinforcement learning based on the XLand-MiniGrid environment, as a first step to alleviate this problem. It contains complete learning histories for nearly $30,000$ different tasks, covering $100$B transitions and 2.5B episodes. It took 50,000 GPU hours to collect the dataset, which is beyond the reach of most academic labs. Along with the dataset, we provide the utilities to reproduce or expand it even further. We also benchmark common in-context RL baselines and show that they struggle to generalize to novel and diverse tasks. With this substantial effort, we aim to democratize research in the rapidly growing field of in-context reinforcement learning and provide a solid foundation for further scaling.





## Oreo: A Plug-in Context Reconstructor to Enhance Retrieval-Augmented Generation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.13019v2
- **Authors**: ['Sha Li', 'Naren Ramakrishnan']
- **Abstrat**: Despite the remarkable capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) in various NLP tasks, they remain vulnerable to hallucinations due to their limited parametric knowledge and lack of domain-specific expertise. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) addresses this challenge by incorporating external document retrieval to augment the knowledge base of LLMs. In this approach, RAG retrieves document chunks from an external corpus in response to a query, which are then used as context for the downstream language model to generate an answer. However, these retrieved knowledge sources often include irrelevant or erroneous information, undermining the effectiveness of RAG in downstream tasks. To overcome this limitation, we introduce a compact, efficient, and pluggable module designed to refine external knowledge sources before feeding them to the generator. The module reconstructs retrieved content by extracting the most relevant and supportive information and reorganising it into a concise, query-specific format. Through a three-stage training paradigm - comprising supervised fine-tuning, contrastive multi-task learning, and reinforcement learning-based alignment - it prioritises critical knowledge and aligns it with the generator's preferences. This method enables LLMs to produce outputs that are more accurate, reliable, and contextually appropriate.





## Mapping out the Space of Human Feedback for Reinforcement Learning: A Conceptual Framework
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.11761v2
- **Authors**: ['Yannick Metz', 'David Lindner', 'Raphaël Baur', 'Mennatallah El-Assady']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement Learning from Human feedback (RLHF) has become a powerful tool to fine-tune or train agentic machine learning models. Similar to how humans interact in social contexts, we can use many types of feedback to communicate our preferences, intentions, and knowledge to an RL agent. However, applications of human feedback in RL are often limited in scope and disregard human factors. In this work, we bridge the gap between machine learning and human-computer interaction efforts by developing a shared understanding of human feedback in interactive learning scenarios. We first introduce a taxonomy of feedback types for reward-based learning from human feedback based on nine key dimensions. Our taxonomy allows for unifying human-centered, interface-centered, and model-centered aspects. In addition, we identify seven quality metrics of human feedback influencing both the human ability to express feedback and the agent's ability to learn from the feedback. Based on the feedback taxonomy and quality criteria, we derive requirements and design choices for systems learning from human feedback. We relate these requirements and design choices to existing work in interactive machine learning. In the process, we identify gaps in existing work and future research opportunities. We call for interdisciplinary collaboration to harness the full potential of reinforcement learning with data-driven co-adaptive modeling and varied interaction mechanics.





## Length-Controlled Margin-Based Preference Optimization without Reference Model
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14643v1
- **Authors**: ['Gengxu Li', 'Tingyu Xia', 'Yi Chang', 'Yuan Wu']
- **Abstrat**: Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) is a widely adopted offline algorithm for preference-based reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), designed to improve training simplicity and stability by redefining reward functions. However, DPO is hindered by several limitations, including length bias, memory inefficiency, and probability degradation. To address these challenges, we propose Length-Controlled Margin-Based Preference Optimization (LMPO), a more efficient and robust alternative. LMPO introduces a uniform reference model as an upper bound for the DPO loss, enabling a more accurate approximation of the original optimization objective. Additionally, an average log-probability optimization strategy is employed to minimize discrepancies between training and inference phases. A key innovation of LMPO lies in its Length-Controlled Margin-Based loss function, integrated within the Bradley-Terry framework. This loss function regulates response length while simultaneously widening the margin between preferred and rejected outputs. By doing so, it mitigates probability degradation for both accepted and discarded responses, addressing a significant limitation of existing methods. We evaluate LMPO against state-of-the-art preference optimization techniques on two open-ended large language models, Mistral and LLaMA3, across six conditional benchmarks. Our experimental results demonstrate that LMPO effectively controls response length, reduces probability degradation, and outperforms existing approaches. The code is available at \url{https://github.com/gengxuli/LMPO}.





## Curiosity Driven Multi-agent Reinforcement Learning for 3D Game Testing
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14606v1
- **Authors**: ['Raihana Ferdous', 'Fitsum Kifetew', 'Davide Prandi', 'Angelo Susi']
- **Abstrat**: Recently testing of games via autonomous agents has shown great promise in tackling challenges faced by the game industry, which mainly relied on either manual testing or record/replay. In particular Reinforcement Learning (RL) solutions have shown potential by learning directly from playing the game without the need for human intervention. In this paper, we present cMarlTest, an approach for testing 3D games through curiosity driven Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL). cMarlTest deploys multiple agents that work collaboratively to achieve the testing objective. The use of multiple agents helps resolve issues faced by a single agent approach. We carried out experiments on different levels of a 3D game comparing the performance of cMarlTest with a single agent RL variant. Results are promising where, considering three different types of coverage criteria, cMarlTest achieved higher coverage. cMarlTest was also more efficient in terms of the time taken, with respect to the single agent based variant.





## TeLL-Drive: Enhancing Autonomous Driving with Teacher LLM-Guided Deep Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.01387v3
- **Authors**: ['Chengkai Xu', 'Jiaqi Liu', 'Shiyu Fang', 'Yiming Cui', 'Dong Chen', 'Peng Hang', 'Jian Sun']
- **Abstrat**: Although Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) and Large Language Models (LLMs) each show promise in addressing decision-making challenges in autonomous driving, DRL often suffers from high sample complexity, while LLMs have difficulty ensuring real-time decision making. To address these limitations, we propose TeLL-Drive, a hybrid framework that integrates a Teacher LLM to guide an attention-based Student DRL policy. By incorporating risk metrics, historical scenario retrieval, and domain heuristics into context-rich prompts, the LLM produces high-level driving strategies through chain-of-thought reasoning. A self-attention mechanism then fuses these strategies with the DRL agent's exploration, accelerating policy convergence and boosting robustness across diverse driving conditions. The experimental results, evaluated across multiple traffic scenarios, show that TeLL-Drive outperforms existing baseline methods, including other LLM-based approaches, in terms of success rates, average returns, and real-time feasibility. Ablation studies underscore the importance of each model component, especially the synergy between the attention mechanism and LLM-driven guidance. Finally, we build a virtual-real fusion experimental platform to verify the real-time performance, robustness, and reliability of the algorithm running on real vehicles through vehicle-in-loop experiments.





## ReVISE: Learning to Refine at Test-Time via Intrinsic Self-Verification
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14565v1
- **Authors**: ['Hyunseok Lee', 'Seunghyuk Oh', 'Jaehyung Kim', 'Jinwoo Shin', 'Jihoon Tack']
- **Abstrat**: Self-awareness, i.e., the ability to assess and correct one's own generation, is a fundamental aspect of human intelligence, making its replication in large language models (LLMs) an important yet challenging task. Previous works tackle this by employing extensive reinforcement learning or rather relying on large external verifiers. In this work, we propose Refine via Intrinsic Self-Verification (ReVISE), an efficient and effective framework that enables LLMs to self-correct their outputs through self-verification. The core idea of ReVISE is to enable LLMs to verify their reasoning processes and continually rethink reasoning trajectories based on its verification. We introduce a structured curriculum based upon online preference learning to implement this efficiently. Specifically, as ReVISE involves two challenging tasks (i.e., self-verification and reasoning correction), we tackle each task sequentially using curriculum learning, collecting both failed and successful reasoning paths to construct preference pairs for efficient training. During inference, our approach enjoys natural test-time scaling by integrating self-verification and correction capabilities, further enhanced by our proposed confidence-aware decoding mechanism. Our experiments on various reasoning tasks demonstrate that ReVISE achieves efficient self-correction and significantly improves reasoning performance.





## MLGym: A New Framework and Benchmark for Advancing AI Research Agents
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14499v1
- **Authors**: ['Deepak Nathani', 'Lovish Madaan', 'Nicholas Roberts', 'Nikolay Bashlykov', 'Ajay Menon', 'Vincent Moens', 'Amar Budhiraja', 'Despoina Magka', 'Vladislav Vorotilov', 'Gaurav Chaurasia', 'Dieuwke Hupkes', 'Ricardo Silveira Cabral', 'Tatiana Shavrina', 'Jakob Foerster', 'Yoram Bachrach', 'William Yang Wang', 'Roberta Raileanu']
- **Abstrat**: We introduce Meta MLGym and MLGym-Bench, a new framework and benchmark for evaluating and developing LLM agents on AI research tasks. This is the first Gym environment for machine learning (ML) tasks, enabling research on reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms for training such agents. MLGym-bench consists of 13 diverse and open-ended AI research tasks from diverse domains such as computer vision, natural language processing, reinforcement learning, and game theory. Solving these tasks requires real-world AI research skills such as generating new ideas and hypotheses, creating and processing data, implementing ML methods, training models, running experiments, analyzing the results, and iterating through this process to improve on a given task. We evaluate a number of frontier large language models (LLMs) on our benchmarks such as Claude-3.5-Sonnet, Llama-3.1 405B, GPT-4o, o1-preview, and Gemini-1.5 Pro. Our MLGym framework makes it easy to add new tasks, integrate and evaluate models or agents, generate synthetic data at scale, as well as develop new learning algorithms for training agents on AI research tasks. We find that current frontier models can improve on the given baselines, usually by finding better hyperparameters, but do not generate novel hypotheses, algorithms, architectures, or substantial improvements. We open-source our framework and benchmark to facilitate future research in advancing the AI research capabilities of LLM agents.





## Enhancing Language Multi-Agent Learning with Multi-Agent Credit Re-Assignment for Interactive Environment Generalization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14496v1
- **Authors**: ['Zhitao He', 'Zijun Liu', 'Peng Li', 'May Fung', 'Ming Yan', 'Ji Zhang', 'Fei Huang', 'Yang Liu']
- **Abstrat**: LLM-based agents have made significant advancements in interactive environments, such as mobile operations and web browsing, and other domains beyond computer using. Current multi-agent systems universally excel in performance, compared to single agents, but struggle with generalization across environments due to predefined roles and inadequate strategies for generalizing language agents. The challenge of achieving both strong performance and good generalization has hindered the progress of multi-agent systems for interactive environments. To address these issues, we propose CollabUIAgents, a multi-agent reinforcement learning framework with a novel multi-agent credit re-assignment (CR) strategy, assigning process rewards with LLMs rather than environment-specific rewards and learning with synthesized preference data, in order to foster generalizable, collaborative behaviors among the role-free agents' policies. Empirical results show that our framework improves both performance and cross-environment generalizability of multi-agent systems. Moreover, our 7B-parameter system achieves results on par with or exceed strong closed-source models, and the LLM that guides the CR. We also provide insights in using granular CR rewards effectively for environment generalization, and accommodating trained LLMs in multi-agent systems.





## Optimal coordination of resources: A solution from reinforcement learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.14970v2
- **Authors**: ['Guozhong Zheng', 'Weiran Cai', 'Guanxiao Qi', 'Jiqiang Zhang', 'Li Chen']
- **Abstrat**: Efficient allocation is important in nature and human society, where individuals frequently compete for limited resources. The Minority Game (MG) is perhaps the simplest toy model to address this issue. However, most previous solutions assume that the strategies are provided a priori and static, failing to capture their adaptive nature. Here, we introduce the reinforcement learning (RL) paradigm to MG, where individuals adjust decisions based on accumulated experience and expected rewards dynamically. We find that this RL framework achieves optimal resource coordination when individuals balance the exploitation of experience with random exploration. Yet, the imbalanced strategies of the two lead to suboptimal partial coordination or even anti-coordination. Our mechanistic analysis reveals a symmetry-breaking in action preferences at the optimum, offering a fresh solution to the MG and new insights into the resource allocation problem.





## A Large Recurrent Action Model: xLSTM enables Fast Inference for Robotics Tasks
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.22391v2
- **Authors**: ['Thomas Schmied', 'Thomas Adler', 'Vihang Patil', 'Maximilian Beck', 'Korbinian Pöppel', 'Johannes Brandstetter', 'Günter Klambauer', 'Razvan Pascanu', 'Sepp Hochreiter']
- **Abstrat**: In recent years, there has been a trend in the field of Reinforcement Learning (RL) towards large action models trained offline on large-scale datasets via sequence modeling. Existing models are primarily based on the Transformer architecture, which result in powerful agents. However, due to slow inference times, Transformer-based approaches are impractical for real-time applications, such as robotics. Recently, modern recurrent architectures, such as xLSTM and Mamba, have been proposed that exhibit parallelization benefits during training similar to the Transformer architecture while offering fast inference. In this work, we study the aptitude of these modern recurrent architectures for large action models. Consequently, we propose a Large Recurrent Action Model (LRAM) with an xLSTM at its core that comes with linear-time inference complexity and natural sequence length extrapolation abilities. Experiments on 432 tasks from 6 domains show that LRAM compares favorably to Transformers in terms of performance and speed.





## MAGNNET: Multi-Agent Graph Neural Network-based Efficient Task Allocation for Autonomous Vehicles with Deep Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.02311v2
- **Authors**: ['Lavanya Ratnabala', 'Aleksey Fedoseev', 'Robinroy Peter', 'Dzmitry Tsetserukou']
- **Abstrat**: This paper addresses the challenge of decentralized task allocation within heterogeneous multi-agent systems operating under communication constraints. We introduce a novel framework that integrates graph neural networks (GNNs) with a centralized training and decentralized execution (CTDE) paradigm, further enhanced by a tailored Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) algorithm for multi-agent deep reinforcement learning (MARL). Our approach enables unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and unmanned ground vehicles (UGVs) to dynamically allocate tasks efficiently without necessitating central coordination in a 3D grid environment. The framework minimizes total travel time while simultaneously avoiding conflicts in task assignments. For the cost calculation and routing, we employ reservation-based A* and R* path planners. Experimental results revealed that our method achieves a high 92.5% conflict-free success rate, with only a 7.49% performance gap compared to the centralized Hungarian method, while outperforming the heuristic decentralized baseline based on greedy approach. Additionally, the framework exhibits scalability with up to 20 agents with allocation processing of 2.8 s and robustness in responding to dynamically generated tasks, underscoring its potential for real-world applications in complex multi-agent scenarios.





## Discovering highly efficient low-weight quantum error-correcting codes with reinforcement learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14372v1
- **Authors**: ['Austin Yubo He', 'Zi-Wen Liu']
- **Abstrat**: The realization of scalable fault-tolerant quantum computing is expected to hinge on quantum error-correcting codes. In the quest for more efficient quantum fault tolerance, a critical code parameter is the weight of measurements that extract information about errors to enable error correction: as higher measurement weights require higher implementation costs and introduce more errors, it is important in code design to optimize measurement weight. This underlies the surging interest in quantum low-density parity-check (qLDPC) codes, the study of which has primarily focused on the asymptotic (large-code-limit) properties. In this work, we introduce a versatile and computationally efficient approach to stabilizer code weight reduction based on reinforcement learning (RL), which produces new low-weight codes that substantially outperform the state of the art in practically relevant parameter regimes, extending significantly beyond previously accessible small distances. For example, our approach demonstrates savings in physical qubit overhead compared to existing results by 1 to 2 orders of magnitude for weight 6 codes and brings the overhead into a feasible range for near-future experiments. We also investigate the interplay between code parameters using our RL framework, offering new insights into the potential efficiency and power of practically viable coding strategies. Overall, our results demonstrate how RL can effectively advance the crucial yet challenging problem of quantum code discovery and thereby facilitate a faster path to the practical implementation of fault-tolerant quantum technologies.





## PPO-MI: Efficient Black-Box Model Inversion via Proximal Policy Optimization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14370v1
- **Authors**: ['Xinpeng Shou']
- **Abstrat**: Model inversion attacks pose a significant privacy risk by attempting to reconstruct private training data from trained models. Most of the existing methods either depend on gradient estimation or require white-box access to model parameters, which limits their applicability in practical scenarios. In this paper, we propose PPO-MI, a novel reinforcement learning-based framework for black-box model inversion attacks. Our approach formulates the inversion task as a Markov Decision Process, where an agent navigates the latent space of a generative model to reconstruct private training samples using only model predictions. By employing Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) with a momentum-based state transition mechanism, along with a reward function balancing prediction accuracy and exploration, PPO-MI ensures efficient latent space exploration and high query efficiency. We conduct extensive experiments illustrates that PPO-MI outperforms the existing methods while require less attack knowledge, and it is robust across various model architectures and datasets. These results underline its effectiveness and generalizability in practical black-box scenarios, raising important considerations for the privacy vulnerabilities of deployed machine learning models.





## Is Q-learning an Ill-posed Problem?
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.14365v1
- **Authors**: ['Philipp Wissmann', 'Daniel Hein', 'Steffen Udluft', 'Thomas Runkler']
- **Abstrat**: This paper investigates the instability of Q-learning in continuous environments, a challenge frequently encountered by practitioners. Traditionally, this instability is attributed to bootstrapping and regression model errors. Using a representative reinforcement learning benchmark, we systematically examine the effects of bootstrapping and model inaccuracies by incrementally eliminating these potential error sources. Our findings reveal that even in relatively simple benchmarks, the fundamental task of Q-learning -iteratively learning a Q-function from policy-specific target values - can be inherently ill-posed and prone to failure. These insights cast doubt on the reliability of Q-learning as a universal solution for reinforcement learning problems.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning