# reinforcement learning
## Reinforcement Learning with Segment Feedback
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.01876v2
- **Authors**: ['Yihan Du', 'Anna Winnicki', 'Gal Dalal', 'Shie Mannor', 'R. Srikant']
- **Abstrat**: Standard reinforcement learning (RL) assumes that an agent can observe a reward for each state-action pair. However, in practical applications, it is often difficult and costly to collect a reward for each state-action pair. While there have been several works considering RL with trajectory feedback, it is unclear if trajectory feedback is inefficient for learning when trajectories are long. In this work, we consider a model named RL with segment feedback, which offers a general paradigm filling the gap between per-state-action feedback and trajectory feedback. In this model, we consider an episodic Markov decision process (MDP), where each episode is divided into $m$ segments, and the agent observes reward feedback only at the end of each segment. Under this model, we study two popular feedback settings: binary feedback and sum feedback, where the agent observes a binary outcome and a reward sum according to the underlying reward function, respectively. To investigate the impact of the number of segments $m$ on learning performance, we design efficient algorithms and establish regret upper and lower bounds for both feedback settings. Our theoretical and experimental results show that: under binary feedback, increasing the number of segments $m$ decreases the regret at an exponential rate; in contrast, surprisingly, under sum feedback, increasing $m$ does not reduce the regret significantly.





## Reasoning with Exploration: An Entropy Perspective
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.14758v1
- **Authors**: ['Daixuan Cheng', 'Shaohan Huang', 'Xuekai Zhu', 'Bo Dai', 'Wayne Xin Zhao', 'Zhenliang Zhang', 'Furu Wei']
- **Abstrat**: Balancing exploration and exploitation is a central goal in reinforcement learning (RL). Despite recent advances in enhancing language model (LM) reasoning, most methods lean toward exploitation, and increasingly encounter performance plateaus. In this work, we revisit entropy -- a signal of exploration in RL -- and examine its relationship to exploratory reasoning in LMs. Through empirical analysis, we uncover strong positive correlations between high-entropy regions and three types of exploratory reasoning actions: (1) pivotal tokens that determine or connect logical steps, (2) reflective actions such as self-verification and correction, and (3) rare behaviors under-explored by the base LMs. Motivated by this, we introduce a minimal modification to standard RL with only one line of code: augmenting the advantage function with an entropy-based term. Unlike traditional maximum-entropy methods which encourage exploration by promoting uncertainty, we encourage exploration by promoting longer and deeper reasoning chains. Notably, our method achieves significant gains on the Pass@K metric -- an upper-bound estimator of LM reasoning capabilities -- even when evaluated with extremely large K values, pushing the boundaries of LM reasoning.





## Ring-lite: Scalable Reasoning via C3PO-Stabilized Reinforcement Learning for LLMs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.14731v1
- **Authors**: ['Ring Team', 'Bin Hu', 'Cai Chen', 'Deng Zhao', 'Ding Liu', 'Dingnan Jin', 'Feng Zhu', 'Hao Dai', 'Hongzhi Luan', 'Jia Guo', 'Jiaming Liu', 'Jiewei Wu', 'Jun Mei', 'Jun Zhou', 'Junbo Zhao', 'Junwu Xiong', 'Kaihong Zhang', 'Kuan Xu', 'Lei Liang', 'Liang Jiang', 'Liangcheng Fu', 'Longfei Zheng', 'Qiang Gao', 'Qing Cui', 'Quan Wan', 'Shaomian Zheng', 'Shuaicheng Li', 'Tongkai Yang', 'Wang Ren', 'Xiaodong Yan', 'Xiaopei Wan', 'Xiaoyun Feng', 'Xin Zhao', 'Xinxing Yang', 'Xinyu Kong', 'Xuemin Yang', 'Yang Li', 'Yingting Wu', 'Yongkang Liu', 'Zhankai Xu', 'Zhenduo Zhang', 'Zhenglei Zhou', 'Zhenyu Huang', 'Zhiqiang Zhang', 'Zihao Wang', 'Zujie Wen']
- **Abstrat**: We present Ring-lite, a Mixture-of-Experts (MoE)-based large language model optimized via reinforcement learning (RL) to achieve efficient and robust reasoning capabilities. Built upon the publicly available Ling-lite model, a 16.8 billion parameter model with 2.75 billion activated parameters, our approach matches the performance of state-of-the-art (SOTA) small-scale reasoning models on challenging benchmarks (e.g., AIME, LiveCodeBench, GPQA-Diamond) while activating only one-third of the parameters required by comparable models. To accomplish this, we introduce a joint training pipeline integrating distillation with RL, revealing undocumented challenges in MoE RL training. First, we identify optimization instability during RL training, and we propose Constrained Contextual Computation Policy Optimization(C3PO), a novel approach that enhances training stability and improves computational throughput via algorithm-system co-design methodology. Second, we empirically demonstrate that selecting distillation checkpoints based on entropy loss for RL training, rather than validation metrics, yields superior performance-efficiency trade-offs in subsequent RL training. Finally, we develop a two-stage training paradigm to harmonize multi-domain data integration, addressing domain conflicts that arise in training with mixed dataset. We will release the model, dataset, and code.





## Adaptive Accompaniment with ReaLchords
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.14723v1
- **Authors**: ['Yusong Wu', 'Tim Cooijmans', 'Kyle Kastner', 'Adam Roberts', 'Ian Simon', 'Alexander Scarlatos', 'Chris Donahue', 'Cassie Tarakajian', 'Shayegan Omidshafiei', 'Aaron Courville', 'Pablo Samuel Castro', 'Natasha Jaques', 'Cheng-Zhi Anna Huang']
- **Abstrat**: Jamming requires coordination, anticipation, and collaborative creativity between musicians. Current generative models of music produce expressive output but are not able to generate in an \emph{online} manner, meaning simultaneously with other musicians (human or otherwise). We propose ReaLchords, an online generative model for improvising chord accompaniment to user melody. We start with an online model pretrained by maximum likelihood, and use reinforcement learning to finetune the model for online use. The finetuning objective leverages both a novel reward model that provides feedback on both harmonic and temporal coherency between melody and chord, and a divergence term that implements a novel type of distillation from a teacher model that can see the future melody. Through quantitative experiments and listening tests, we demonstrate that the resulting model adapts well to unfamiliar input and produce fitting accompaniment. ReaLchords opens the door to live jamming, as well as simultaneous co-creation in other modalities.





## Gaze-informed Signatures of Trust and Collaboration in Human-Autonomy Teams
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.19139v2
- **Authors**: ['Anthony J. Ries', 'Stéphane Aroca-Ouellette', 'Alessandro Roncone', 'Ewart J. de Visser']
- **Abstrat**: In the evolving landscape of human-autonomy teaming (HAT), fostering effective collaboration and trust between human and autonomous agents is increasingly important. To explore this, we used the game Overcooked AI to create dynamic teaming scenarios featuring varying agent behaviors (clumsy, rigid, adaptive) and environmental complexities (low, medium, high). Our objectives were to assess the performance of adaptive AI agents designed with hierarchical reinforcement learning for better teamwork and measure eye tracking signals related to changes in trust and collaboration. The results indicate that the adaptive agent was more effective in managing teaming and creating an equitable task distribution across environments compared to the other agents. Working with the adaptive agent resulted in better coordination, reduced collisions, more balanced task contributions, and higher trust ratings. Reduced gaze allocation, across all agents, was associated with higher trust levels, while blink count, scan path length, agent revisits and trust were predictive of the humans contribution to the team. Notably, fixation revisits on the agent increased with environmental complexity and decreased with agent versatility, offering a unique metric for measuring teammate performance monitoring. These findings underscore the importance of designing autonomous teammates that not only excel in task performance but also enhance teamwork by being more predictable and reducing the cognitive load on human team members. Additionally, this study highlights the potential of eye-tracking as an unobtrusive measure for evaluating and improving human-autonomy teams, suggesting eye gaze could be used by agents to dynamically adapt their behaviors.





## FigCaps-HF: A Figure-to-Caption Generative Framework and Benchmark with Human Feedback
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2307.10867v2
- **Authors**: ['Ashish Singh', 'Ashutosh Singh', 'Prateek Agarwal', 'Zixuan Huang', 'Arpita Singh', 'Tong Yu', 'Sungchul Kim', 'Victor Bursztyn', 'Nesreen K. Ahmed', 'Puneet Mathur', 'Erik Learned-Miller', 'Franck Dernoncourt', 'Ryan A. Rossi']
- **Abstrat**: Captions are crucial for understanding scientific visualizations and documents. Existing captioning methods for scientific figures rely on figure-caption pairs extracted from documents for training, many of which fall short with respect to metrics like helpfulness, explainability, and visual-descriptiveness [15] leading to generated captions being misaligned with reader preferences. To enable the generation of high-quality figure captions, we introduce FigCaps-HF a new framework for figure-caption generation that can incorporate domain expert feedback in generating captions optimized for reader preferences. Our framework comprises of 1) an automatic method for evaluating quality of figure-caption pairs, 2) a novel reinforcement learning with human feedback (RLHF) method to optimize a generative figure-to-caption model for reader preferences. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our simple learning framework by improving performance over standard fine-tuning across different types of models. In particular, when using BLIP as the base model, our RLHF framework achieves a mean gain of 35.7%, 16.9%, and 9% in ROUGE, BLEU, and Meteor, respectively. Finally, we release a large-scale benchmark dataset with human feedback on figure-caption pairs to enable further evaluation and development of RLHF techniques for this problem.





## SENIOR: Efficient Query Selection and Preference-Guided Exploration in Preference-based Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.14648v1
- **Authors**: ['Hexian Ni', 'Tao Lu', 'Haoyuan Hu', 'Yinghao Cai', 'Shuo Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Preference-based Reinforcement Learning (PbRL) methods provide a solution to avoid reward engineering by learning reward models based on human preferences. However, poor feedback- and sample- efficiency still remain the problems that hinder the application of PbRL. In this paper, we present a novel efficient query selection and preference-guided exploration method, called SENIOR, which could select the meaningful and easy-to-comparison behavior segment pairs to improve human feedback-efficiency and accelerate policy learning with the designed preference-guided intrinsic rewards. Our key idea is twofold: (1) We designed a Motion-Distinction-based Selection scheme (MDS). It selects segment pairs with apparent motion and different directions through kernel density estimation of states, which is more task-related and easy for human preference labeling; (2) We proposed a novel preference-guided exploration method (PGE). It encourages the exploration towards the states with high preference and low visits and continuously guides the agent achieving the valuable samples. The synergy between the two mechanisms could significantly accelerate the progress of reward and policy learning. Our experiments show that SENIOR outperforms other five existing methods in both human feedback-efficiency and policy convergence speed on six complex robot manipulation tasks from simulation and four real-worlds.





## A Production Scheduling Framework for Reinforcement Learning Under Real-World Constraints
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.13566v2
- **Authors**: ['Jonathan Hoss', 'Felix Schelling', 'Noah Klarmann']
- **Abstrat**: The classical Job Shop Scheduling Problem (JSSP) focuses on optimizing makespan under deterministic constraints. Real-world production environments introduce additional complexities that cause traditional scheduling approaches to be less effective. Reinforcement learning (RL) holds potential in addressing these challenges, as it allows agents to learn adaptive scheduling strategies. However, there is a lack of a comprehensive, general-purpose frameworks for effectively training and evaluating RL agents under real-world constraints. To address this gap, we propose a modular framework that extends classical JSSP formulations by incorporating key real-world constraints inherent to the shopfloor, including transport logistics, buffer management, machine breakdowns, setup times, and stochastic processing conditions, while also supporting multi-objective optimization. The framework is a customizable solution that offers flexibility in defining problem instances and configuring simulation parameters, enabling adaptation to diverse production scenarios. A standardized interface ensures compatibility with various RL approaches, providing a robust environment for training RL agents and facilitating the standardized comparison of different scheduling methods under dynamic and uncertain conditions. We release JobShopLab as an open-source tool for both research and industrial applications, accessible at: https://github.com/proto-lab-ro/jobshoplab





## On Quantum BSDE Solver for High-Dimensional Parabolic PDEs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.14612v1
- **Authors**: ['Howard Su', 'Huan-Hsin Tseng']
- **Abstrat**: We propose a quantum machine learning framework for approximating solutions to high-dimensional parabolic partial differential equations (PDEs) that can be reformulated as backward stochastic differential equations (BSDEs). In contrast to popular quantum-classical network hybrid approaches, this study employs the pure Variational Quantum Circuit (VQC) as the core solver without trainable classical neural networks. The quantum BSDE solver performs pathwise approximation via temporal discretization and Monte Carlo simulation, framed as model-based reinforcement learning. We benchmark VQCbased and classical deep neural network (DNN) solvers on two canonical PDEs as representatives: the Black-Scholes and nonlinear Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) equations. The VQC achieves lower variance and improved accuracy in most cases, particularly in highly nonlinear regimes and for out-of-themoney options, demonstrating greater robustness than DNNs. These results, obtained via quantum circuit simulation, highlight the potential of VQCs as scalable and stable solvers for highdimensional stochastic control problems.





## TGDPO: Harnessing Token-Level Reward Guidance for Enhancing Direct Preference Optimization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.14574v1
- **Authors**: ['Mingkang Zhu', 'Xi Chen', 'Zhongdao Wang', 'Bei Yu', 'Hengshuang Zhao', 'Jiaya Jia']
- **Abstrat**: Recent advancements in reinforcement learning from human feedback have shown that utilizing fine-grained token-level reward models can substantially enhance the performance of Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) in aligning large language models. However, it is challenging to leverage such token-level reward as guidance for Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), since DPO is formulated as a sequence-level bandit problem. To address this challenge, this work decomposes the sequence-level PPO into a sequence of token-level proximal policy optimization problems and then frames the problem of token-level PPO with token-level reward guidance, from which closed-form optimal token-level policy and the corresponding token-level reward can be derived. Using the obtained reward and Bradley-Terry model, this work establishes a framework of computable loss functions with token-level reward guidance for DPO, and proposes a practical reward guidance based on the induced DPO reward. This formulation enables different tokens to exhibit varying degrees of deviation from reference policy based on their respective rewards. Experiment results demonstrate that our method achieves substantial performance improvements over DPO, with win rate gains of up to 7.5 points on MT-Bench, 6.2 points on AlpacaEval 2, and 4.3 points on Arena-Hard. Code is available at https://github.com/dvlab-research/TGDPO.





## Toward Safety-First Human-Like Decision Making for Autonomous Vehicles in Time-Varying Traffic Flow
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.14502v1
- **Authors**: ['Xiao Wang', 'Junru Yu', 'Jun Huang', 'Qiong Wu', 'Ljubo Vacic', 'Changyin Sun']
- **Abstrat**: Despite the recent advancements in artificial intelligence technologies have shown great potential in improving transport efficiency and safety, autonomous vehicles(AVs) still face great challenge of driving in time-varying traffic flow, especially in dense and interactive situations. Meanwhile, human have free wills and usually do not make the same decisions even situate in the exactly same scenarios, leading to the data-driven methods suffer from poor migratability and high search cost problems, decreasing the efficiency and effectiveness of the behavior policy. In this research, we propose a safety-first human-like decision-making framework(SF-HLDM) for AVs to drive safely, comfortably, and social compatiblely in effiency. The framework integrates a hierarchical progressive framework, which combines a spatial-temporal attention (S-TA) mechanism for other road users' intention inference, a social compliance estimation module for behavior regulation, and a Deep Evolutionary Reinforcement Learning(DERL) model for expanding the search space efficiently and effectively to make avoidance of falling into the local optimal trap and reduce the risk of overfitting, thus make human-like decisions with interpretability and flexibility. The SF-HLDM framework enables autonomous driving AI agents dynamically adjusts decision parameters to maintain safety margins and adhering to contextually appropriate driving behaviors at the same time.





## Zeroth-Order Optimization is Secretly Single-Step Policy Optimization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.14460v1
- **Authors**: ['Junbin Qiu', 'Zhengpeng Xie', 'Xiangda Yan', 'Yongjie Yang', 'Yao Shu']
- **Abstrat**: Zeroth-Order Optimization (ZOO) provides powerful tools for optimizing functions where explicit gradients are unavailable or expensive to compute. However, the underlying mechanisms of popular ZOO methods, particularly those employing randomized finite differences, and their connection to other optimization paradigms like Reinforcement Learning (RL) are not fully elucidated. This paper establishes a fundamental and previously unrecognized connection: ZOO with finite differences is equivalent to a specific instance of single-step Policy Optimization (PO). We formally unveil that the implicitly smoothed objective function optimized by common ZOO algorithms is identical to a single-step PO objective. Furthermore, we show that widely used ZOO gradient estimators, are mathematically equivalent to the REINFORCE gradient estimator with a specific baseline function, revealing the variance-reducing mechanism in ZOO from a PO perspective.Built on this unified framework, we propose ZoAR (Zeroth-Order Optimization with Averaged Baseline and Query Reuse), a novel ZOO algorithm incorporating PO-inspired variance reduction techniques: an averaged baseline from recent evaluations and query reuse analogous to experience replay. Our theoretical analysis further substantiates these techniques reduce variance and enhance convergence. Extensive empirical studies validate our theory and demonstrate that ZoAR significantly outperforms other methods in terms of convergence speed and final performance. Overall, our work provides a new theoretical lens for understanding ZOO and offers practical algorithmic improvements derived from its connection to PO.





## Toward Rich Video Human-Motion2D Generation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.14428v1
- **Authors**: ['Ruihao Xi', 'Xuekuan Wang', 'Yongcheng Li', 'Shuhua Li', 'Zichen Wang', 'Yiwei Wang', 'Feng Wei', 'Cairong Zhao']
- **Abstrat**: Generating realistic and controllable human motions, particularly those involving rich multi-character interactions, remains a significant challenge due to data scarcity and the complexities of modeling inter-personal dynamics. To address these limitations, we first introduce a new large-scale rich video human motion 2D dataset (Motion2D-Video-150K) comprising 150,000 video sequences. Motion2D-Video-150K features a balanced distribution of diverse single-character and, crucially, double-character interactive actions, each paired with detailed textual descriptions. Building upon this dataset, we propose a novel diffusion-based rich video human motion2D generation (RVHM2D) model. RVHM2D incorporates an enhanced textual conditioning mechanism utilizing either dual text encoders (CLIP-L/B) or T5-XXL with both global and local features. We devise a two-stage training strategy: the model is first trained with a standard diffusion objective, and then fine-tuned using reinforcement learning with an FID-based reward to further enhance motion realism and text alignment. Extensive experiments demonstrate that RVHM2D achieves leading performance on the Motion2D-Video-150K benchmark in generating both single and interactive double-character scenarios.





## Unsupervised Skill Discovery through Skill Regions Differentiation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.14420v1
- **Authors**: ['Ting Xiao', 'Jiakun Zheng', 'Rushuai Yang', 'Kang Xu', 'Qiaosheng Zhang', 'Peng Liu', 'Chenjia Bai']
- **Abstrat**: Unsupervised Reinforcement Learning (RL) aims to discover diverse behaviors that can accelerate the learning of downstream tasks. Previous methods typically focus on entropy-based exploration or empowerment-driven skill learning. However, entropy-based exploration struggles in large-scale state spaces (e.g., images), and empowerment-based methods with Mutual Information (MI) estimations have limitations in state exploration. To address these challenges, we propose a novel skill discovery objective that maximizes the deviation of the state density of one skill from the explored regions of other skills, encouraging inter-skill state diversity similar to the initial MI objective. For state-density estimation, we construct a novel conditional autoencoder with soft modularization for different skill policies in high-dimensional space. Meanwhile, to incentivize intra-skill exploration, we formulate an intrinsic reward based on the learned autoencoder that resembles count-based exploration in a compact latent space. Through extensive experiments in challenging state and image-based tasks, we find our method learns meaningful skills and achieves superior performance in various downstream tasks.





## Adaptive Reinforcement Learning for Unobservable Random Delays
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.14411v1
- **Authors**: ['John Wikman', 'Alexandre Proutiere', 'David Broman']
- **Abstrat**: In standard Reinforcement Learning (RL) settings, the interaction between the agent and the environment is typically modeled as a Markov Decision Process (MDP), which assumes that the agent observes the system state instantaneously, selects an action without delay, and executes it immediately. In real-world dynamic environments, such as cyber-physical systems, this assumption often breaks down due to delays in the interaction between the agent and the system. These delays can vary stochastically over time and are typically unobservable, meaning they are unknown when deciding on an action. Existing methods deal with this uncertainty conservatively by assuming a known fixed upper bound on the delay, even if the delay is often much lower. In this work, we introduce the interaction layer, a general framework that enables agents to adaptively and seamlessly handle unobservable and time-varying delays. Specifically, the agent generates a matrix of possible future actions to handle both unpredictable delays and lost action packets sent over networks. Building on this framework, we develop a model-based algorithm, Actor-Critic with Delay Adaptation (ACDA), which dynamically adjusts to delay patterns. Our method significantly outperforms state-of-the-art approaches across a wide range of locomotion benchmark environments.





## HiLight: A Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning Framework with Global Adversarial Guidance for Large-Scale Traffic Signal Control
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.14391v1
- **Authors**: ['Yaqiao Zhu', 'Hongkai Wen', 'Geyong Min', 'Man Luo']
- **Abstrat**: Efficient traffic signal control (TSC) is essential for mitigating urban congestion, yet existing reinforcement learning (RL) methods face challenges in scaling to large networks while maintaining global coordination. Centralized RL suffers from scalability issues, while decentralized approaches often lack unified objectives, resulting in limited network-level efficiency. In this paper, we propose HiLight, a hierarchical reinforcement learning framework with global adversarial guidance for large-scale TSC. HiLight consists of a high-level Meta-Policy, which partitions the traffic network into subregions and generates sub-goals using a Transformer-LSTM architecture, and a low-level Sub-Policy, which controls individual intersections with global awareness. To improve the alignment between global planning and local execution, we introduce an adversarial training mechanism, where the Meta-Policy generates challenging yet informative sub-goals, and the Sub-Policy learns to surpass these targets, leading to more effective coordination. We evaluate HiLight across both synthetic and real-world benchmarks, and additionally construct a large-scale Manhattan network with diverse traffic conditions, including peak transitions, adverse weather, and holiday surges. Experimental results show that HiLight exhibits significant advantages in large-scale scenarios and remains competitive across standard benchmarks of varying sizes.





## IntelliLung: Advancing Safe Mechanical Ventilation using Offline RL with Hybrid Actions and Clinically Aligned Rewards
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.14375v1
- **Authors**: ['Muhammad Hamza Yousuf', 'Jason Li', 'Sahar Vahdati', 'Raphael Theilen', 'Jakob Wittenstein', 'Jens Lehmann']
- **Abstrat**: Invasive mechanical ventilation (MV) is a life-sustaining therapy for critically ill patients in the intensive care unit (ICU). However, optimizing its settings remains a complex and error-prone process due to patient-specific variability. While Offline Reinforcement Learning (RL) shows promise for MV control, current stateof-the-art (SOTA) methods struggle with the hybrid (continuous and discrete) nature of MV actions. Discretizing the action space limits available actions due to exponential growth in combinations and introduces distribution shifts that can compromise safety. In this paper, we propose optimizations that build upon prior work in action space reduction to address the challenges of discrete action spaces. We also adapt SOTA offline RL algorithms (IQL and EDAC) to operate directly on hybrid action spaces, thereby avoiding the pitfalls of discretization. Additionally, we introduce a clinically grounded reward function based on ventilator-free days and physiological targets, which provides a more meaningful optimization objective compared to traditional sparse mortality-based rewards. Our findings demonstrate that AI-assisted MV optimization may enhance patient safety and enable individualized lung support, representing a significant advancement toward intelligent, data-driven critical care solutions.





## QuantFactor REINFORCE: Mining Steady Formulaic Alpha Factors with Variance-bounded REINFORCE
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.05144v3
- **Authors**: ['Junjie Zhao', 'Chengxi Zhang', 'Min Qin', 'Peng Yang']
- **Abstrat**: Alpha factor mining aims to discover investment signals from the historical financial market data, which can be used to predict asset returns and gain excess profits. Powerful deep learning methods for alpha factor mining lack interpretability, making them unacceptable in the risk-sensitive real markets. Formulaic alpha factors are preferred for their interpretability, while the search space is complex and powerful explorative methods are urged. Recently, a promising framework is proposed for generating formulaic alpha factors using deep reinforcement learning, and quickly gained research focuses from both academia and industries. This paper first argues that the originally employed policy training method, i.e., Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO), faces several important issues in the context of alpha factors mining. Herein, a novel reinforcement learning algorithm based on the well-known REINFORCE algorithm is proposed. REINFORCE employs Monte Carlo sampling to estimate the policy gradient-yielding unbiased but high variance estimates. The minimal environmental variability inherent in the underlying state transition function, which adheres to the Dirac distribution, can help alleviate this high variance issue, making REINFORCE algorithm more appropriate than PPO. A new dedicated baseline is designed to theoretically reduce the commonly suffered high variance of REINFORCE. Moreover, the information ratio is introduced as a reward shaping mechanism to encourage the generation of steady alpha factors that can better adapt to changes in market volatility. Evaluations on real assets data indicate the proposed algorithm boosts correlation with returns by 3.83\%, and a stronger ability to obtain excess returns compared to the latest alpha factors mining methods, which meets the theoretical results well.





## Incentivizing Reasoning for Advanced Instruction-Following of Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.01413v4
- **Authors**: ['Yulei Qin', 'Gang Li', 'Zongyi Li', 'Zihan Xu', 'Yuchen Shi', 'Zhekai Lin', 'Xiao Cui', 'Ke Li', 'Xing Sun']
- **Abstrat**: Existing large language models (LLMs) face challenges of following complex instructions, especially when multiple constraints are present and organized in paralleling, chaining, and branching structures. One intuitive solution, namely chain-of-thought (CoT), is expected to universally improve capabilities of LLMs. However, we find that the vanilla CoT exerts a negative impact on performance due to its superficial reasoning pattern of simply paraphrasing the instructions. It fails to peel back the compositions of constraints for identifying their relationship across hierarchies of types and dimensions. To this end, we propose a systematic method to boost LLMs in dealing with complex instructions via incentivizing reasoning for test-time compute scaling. First, we stem from the decomposition of complex instructions under existing taxonomies and propose a reproducible data acquisition method. Second, we exploit reinforcement learning (RL) with verifiable rule-centric reward signals to cultivate reasoning specifically for instruction following. We address the shallow, non-essential nature of reasoning under complex instructions via sample-wise contrast for superior CoT enforcement. We also exploit behavior cloning of experts to facilitate steady distribution shift from fast-thinking LLMs to skillful reasoners. Extensive evaluations on seven comprehensive benchmarks confirm the validity of the proposed method, where a 1.5B LLM achieves 11.74% gains with performance comparable to a 8B LLM. Codes and data will be available later (under review).   Keywords: reinforcement learning with verifiable rewards (RLVR), instruction following, complex instructions





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Swarm-STL: A Framework for Motion Planning in Large-Scale, Multi-Swarm Systems
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.14749v1
- **Authors**: ['Shiyu Cheng', 'Luyao Niu', 'Bhaskar Ramasubramanian', 'Andrew Clark', 'Radha Poovendran']
- **Abstrat**: In multi-agent systems, signal temporal logic (STL) is widely used for path planning to accomplish complex objectives with formal safety guarantees. However, as the number of agents increases, existing approaches encounter significant computational challenges. Recognizing that many complex tasks require cooperation among multiple agents, we propose swarm STL specifications to describe the collective tasks that need to be achieved by a team of agents. Next, we address the motion planning problem for all the agents in two stages. First, we abstract a group of cooperating agents as a swarm and construct a reduced-dimension state space whose dimension does not increase with the number of agents. The path planning is performed at the swarm level, ensuring the safety and swarm STL specifications are satisfied. Then, we design low-level control strategies for agents within each swarm based on the path synthesized in the first step. The trajectories of agents generated by the two-step policy ensure satisfaction of the STL specifications. We evaluate our two-stage approach in both single-swarm and multi-swarm scenarios. The results demonstrate that all tasks are completed with safety guarantees. Compared to the baseline multi-agent planning approach, our method maintains computational efficiency as the number of agents increases, since the computational time scales with the number of swarms rather than the number of agents.





## ros2 fanuc interface: Design and Evaluation of a Fanuc CRX Hardware Interface in ROS2
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.14487v1
- **Authors**: ['Paolo Franceschi', 'Marco Faroni', 'Stefano Baraldo', 'Anna Valente']
- **Abstrat**: This paper introduces the ROS2 control and the Hardware Interface (HW) integration for the Fanuc CRX- robot family. It explains basic implementation details and communication protocols, and its integration with the Moveit2 motion planning library. We conducted a series of experiments to evaluate relevant performances in the robotics field. We tested the developed ros2_fanuc_interface for four relevant robotics cases: step response, trajectory tracking, collision avoidance integrated with Moveit2, and dynamic velocity scaling, respectively. Results show that, despite a non-negligible delay between command and feedback, the robot can track the defined path with negligible errors (if it complies with joint velocity limits), ensuring collision avoidance. Full code is open source and available at https://github.com/paolofrance/ros2_fanuc_interface.




