# reinforcement learning
## Functional Acceleration for Policy Mirror Descent
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.16602v2
- **Authors**: ['Veronica Chelu', 'Doina Precup']
- **Abstrat**: We apply functional acceleration to the Policy Mirror Descent (PMD) general family of algorithms, which cover a wide range of novel and fundamental methods in Reinforcement Learning (RL). Leveraging duality, we propose a momentum-based PMD update. By taking the functional route, our approach is independent of the policy parametrization and applicable to large-scale optimization, covering previous applications of momentum at the level of policy parameters as a special case. We theoretically analyze several properties of this approach and complement with a numerical ablation study, which serves to illustrate the policy optimization dynamics on the value polytope, relative to different algorithmic design choices in this space. We further characterize numerically several features of the problem setting relevant for functional acceleration, and lastly, we investigate the impact of approximation on their learning mechanics.





## Think Twice: Enhancing LLM Reasoning by Scaling Multi-round Test-time Thinking
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.19855v1
- **Authors**: ['Xiaoyu Tian', 'Sitong Zhao', 'Haotian Wang', 'Shuaiting Chen', 'Yunjie Ji', 'Yiping Peng', 'Han Zhao', 'Xiangang Li']
- **Abstrat**: Recent advances in large language models (LLMs), such as OpenAI-o1 and DeepSeek-R1, have demonstrated the effectiveness of test-time scaling, where extended reasoning processes substantially enhance model performance. Despite this, current models are constrained by limitations in handling long texts and reinforcement learning (RL) training efficiency. To address these issues, we propose a simple yet effective test-time scaling approach Multi-round Thinking. This method iteratively refines model reasoning by leveraging previous answers as prompts for subsequent rounds. Extensive experiments across multiple models, including QwQ-32B and DeepSeek-R1, consistently show performance improvements on various benchmarks such as AIME 2024, MATH-500, GPQA-diamond, and LiveCodeBench. For instance, the accuracy of QwQ-32B improved from 80.3% (Round 1) to 82.1% (Round 2) on the AIME 2024 dataset, while DeepSeek-R1 showed a similar increase from 79.7% to 82.0%. These results confirm that Multi-round Thinking is a broadly applicable, straightforward approach to achieving stable enhancements in model performance, underscoring its potential for future developments in test-time scaling techniques. The key prompt: {Original question prompt} The assistant's previous answer is: <answer> {last round answer} </answer>, and please re-answer.





## Simplifying Deep Temporal Difference Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.04811v5
- **Authors**: ['Matteo Gallici', 'Mattie Fellows', 'Benjamin Ellis', 'Bartomeu Pou', 'Ivan Masmitja', 'Jakob Nicolaus Foerster', 'Mario Martin']
- **Abstrat**: Q-learning played a foundational role in the field reinforcement learning (RL). However, TD algorithms with off-policy data, such as Q-learning, or nonlinear function approximation like deep neural networks require several additional tricks to stabilise training, primarily a large replay buffer and target networks. Unfortunately, the delayed updating of frozen network parameters in the target network harms the sample efficiency and, similarly, the large replay buffer introduces memory and implementation overheads. In this paper, we investigate whether it is possible to accelerate and simplify off-policy TD training while maintaining its stability. Our key theoretical result demonstrates for the first time that regularisation techniques such as LayerNorm can yield provably convergent TD algorithms without the need for a target network or replay buffer, even with off-policy data. Empirically, we find that online, parallelised sampling enabled by vectorised environments stabilises training without the need for a large replay buffer. Motivated by these findings, we propose PQN, our simplified deep online Q-Learning algorithm. Surprisingly, this simple algorithm is competitive with more complex methods like: Rainbow in Atari, PPO-RNN in Craftax, QMix in Smax, and can be up to 50x faster than traditional DQN without sacrificing sample efficiency. In an era where PPO has become the go-to RL algorithm, PQN reestablishes off-policy Q-learning as a viable alternative.





## Enhancing Persona Consistency for LLMs' Role-Playing using Persona-Aware Contrastive Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.17662v2
- **Authors**: ['Ke Ji', 'Yixin Lian', 'Linxu Li', 'Jingsheng Gao', 'Weiyuan Li', 'Bin Dai']
- **Abstrat**: In recent years, large language models (LLMs) have achieved breakthrough progress in many dialogue generation tasks. However, their lack of emotion and fine-grained role awareness limits the model's ability to provide personalized and diverse interactions further. Current methods face high costs in collecting high-quality annotated data for scenarios such as role-playing, and traditional human alignment methods are difficult to deploy due to the inherent diversity of model behavior in role-playing scenarios. Inspired by the alignment of models for safety behaviors through RLHF (Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback), in this paper, we revisit model role-playing behavior from the perspective of persona alignment and propose a novel annotation-free framework named \textbf{\underline{P}}ersona-Aware \textbf{\underline{C}}ontrastive \textbf{\underline{L}}earning (PCL) to align LLMs' behavior during role-playing, enhancing the model's role consistency. Specifically, we first design a role chain method to encourage the model to self-question based on the role characteristics and dialogue context to adjust personality consistency. Then, we further enhance the model's role-playing strategy through iterative contrastive learning between the use of role characteristics and not. Experiments on both black-box and white-box LLMs show that LLMs equipped with PCL significantly outperform vanilla LLMs under automatic evaluation methods (CharEval \& GPT-4) and human expert evaluation.





## Optimal Path Planning and Cost Minimization for a Drone Delivery System Via Model Predictive Control
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.19699v1
- **Authors**: ['Muhammad Al-Zafar Khan', 'Jamal Al-Karaki']
- **Abstrat**: In this study, we formulate the drone delivery problem as a control problem and solve it using Model Predictive Control. Two experiments are performed: The first is on a less challenging grid world environment with lower dimensionality, and the second is with a higher dimensionality and added complexity. The MPC method was benchmarked against three popular Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL): Independent $Q$-Learning (IQL), Joint Action Learners (JAL), and Value-Decomposition Networks (VDN). It was shown that the MPC method solved the problem quicker and required fewer optimal numbers of drones to achieve a minimized cost and navigate the optimal path.





## Risk-Aware Reinforcement Learning for Autonomous Driving: Improving Safety When Driving through Intersection
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.19690v1
- **Authors**: ['Bo Leng', 'Ran Yu', 'Wei Han', 'Lu Xiong', 'Zhuoren Li', 'Hailong Huang']
- **Abstrat**: Applying reinforcement learning to autonomous driving has garnered widespread attention. However, classical reinforcement learning methods optimize policies by maximizing expected rewards but lack sufficient safety considerations, often putting agents in hazardous situations. This paper proposes a risk-aware reinforcement learning approach for autonomous driving to improve the safety performance when crossing the intersection. Safe critics are constructed to evaluate driving risk and work in conjunction with the reward critic to update the actor. Based on this, a Lagrangian relaxation method and cyclic gradient iteration are combined to project actions into a feasible safe region. Furthermore, a Multi-hop and Multi-layer perception (MLP) mixed Attention Mechanism (MMAM) is incorporated into the actor-critic network, enabling the policy to adapt to dynamic traffic and overcome permutation sensitivity challenges. This allows the policy to focus more effectively on surrounding potential risks while enhancing the identification of passing opportunities. Simulation tests are conducted on different tasks at unsignalized intersections. The results show that the proposed approach effectively reduces collision rates and improves crossing efficiency in comparison to baseline algorithms. Additionally, our ablation experiments demonstrate the benefits of incorporating risk-awareness and MMAM into RL.





## Learning to chain-of-thought with Jensen's evidence lower bound
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.19618v1
- **Authors**: ['Yunhao Tang', 'Sid Wang', 'Rémi Munos']
- **Abstrat**: We propose a way to optimize chain-of-thought with reinforcement learning, but without external reward function. Our algorithm relies on viewing chain-of-thought as latent variable as part of a probabilistic inference problem. Contrary to the full evidence lower bound, we propose to apply a much simpler Jensen's lower bound, which derives tractable objectives with simple algorithmic components (e.g., without the need for parametric approximate posterior), making it more conducive to modern large-scale training. The lower bound approach naturally interpolates other methods such as supervised fine-tuning and online reinforcement learning, whose practical trade-offs we will illustrate. Finally, we show that on mathematical reasoning problems, optimizing with Jensen's lower bound is as effective as policy gradient with external reward. Taken together, our results showcase as a proof of concept to this new algorithmic paradigm's potential to more generic applications.





## RL-finetuning LLMs from on- and off-policy data with a single algorithm
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.19612v1
- **Authors**: ['Yunhao Tang', 'Taco Cohen', 'David W. Zhang', 'Michal Valko', 'Rémi Munos']
- **Abstrat**: We introduce a novel reinforcement learning algorithm (AGRO, for Any-Generation Reward Optimization) for fine-tuning large-language models. AGRO leverages the concept of generation consistency, which states that the optimal policy satisfies the notion of consistency across any possible generation of the model. We derive algorithms that find optimal solutions via the sample-based policy gradient and provide theoretical guarantees on their convergence. Our experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of AGRO in both on-policy and off-policy settings, showing improved performance on the mathematical reasoning dataset over baseline algorithms.





## RL-RC-DoT: A Block-level RL agent for Task-Aware Video Compression
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.12216v2
- **Authors**: ['Uri Gadot', 'Assaf Shocher', 'Shie Mannor', 'Gal Chechik', 'Assaf Hallak']
- **Abstrat**: Video encoders optimize compression for human perception by minimizing reconstruction error under bit-rate constraints. In many modern applications such as autonomous driving, an overwhelming majority of videos serve as input for AI systems performing tasks like object recognition or segmentation, rather than being watched by humans. It is therefore useful to optimize the encoder for a downstream task instead of for perceptual image quality. However, a major challenge is how to combine such downstream optimization with existing standard video encoders, which are highly efficient and popular. Here, we address this challenge by controlling the Quantization Parameters (QPs) at the macro-block level to optimize the downstream task. This granular control allows us to prioritize encoding for task-relevant regions within each frame. We formulate this optimization problem as a Reinforcement Learning (RL) task, where the agent learns to balance long-term implications of choosing QPs on both task performance and bit-rate constraints. Notably, our policy does not require the downstream task as an input during inference, making it suitable for streaming applications and edge devices such as vehicles. We demonstrate significant improvements in two tasks, car detection, and ROI (saliency) encoding. Our approach improves task performance for a given bit rate compared to traditional task agnostic encoding methods, paving the way for more efficient task-aware video compression.





## Learning Evaluation Models from Large Language Models for Sequence Generation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2308.04386v2
- **Authors**: ['Chenglong Wang', 'Hang Zhou', 'Kaiyan Chang', 'Tongran Liu', 'Chunliang Zhang', 'Quan Du', 'Tong Xiao', 'Yue Zhang', 'Jingbo Zhu']
- **Abstrat**: Automatic evaluation of sequence generation, traditionally reliant on metrics like BLEU and ROUGE, often fails to capture the semantic accuracy of generated text sequences due to their emphasis on n-gram overlap. A promising solution to this problem is to develop model-based metrics, such as BLEURT and COMET. However, these approaches are typically hindered by the scarcity of labeled evaluation data, which is necessary to train the evaluation models. In this work, we build upon this challenge by proposing the Customized Sequence Evaluation Metric (CSEM), a three-stage evaluation model training method that utilizes large language models to generate labeled data for model-based metric development, thereby eliminating the need for human-labeled data. Additionally, we expand the scope of CSEM to support various evaluation types, including single-aspect, multi-aspect, reference-free, and reference-based evaluations, enabling the customization of metrics to suit diverse real-world scenarios. Experimental results on the SummEval benchmark demonstrate that CSEM can effectively train an evaluation model without human-labeled data. Further experiments in reinforcement learning and reranking show that metrics developed through CSEM outperform traditional evaluation metrics, leading to substantial improvements in sequence quality as evaluated by both commonly used metrics and ChatGPT.





## Probabilistic Shielding for Safe Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.07671v3
- **Authors**: ['Edwin Hamel-De le Court', 'Francesco Belardinelli', 'Alexander W. Goodall']
- **Abstrat**: In real-life scenarios, a Reinforcement Learning (RL) agent aiming to maximise their reward, must often also behave in a safe manner, including at training time. Thus, much attention in recent years has been given to Safe RL, where an agent aims to learn an optimal policy among all policies that satisfy a given safety constraint. However, strict safety guarantees are often provided through approaches based on linear programming, and thus have limited scaling. In this paper we present a new, scalable method, which enjoys strict formal guarantees for Safe RL, in the case where the safety dynamics of the Markov Decision Process (MDP) are known, and safety is defined as an undiscounted probabilistic avoidance property. Our approach is based on state-augmentation of the MDP, and on the design of a shield that restricts the actions available to the agent. We show that our approach provides a strict formal safety guarantee that the agent stays safe at training and test time. Furthermore, we demonstrate that our approach is viable in practice through experimental evaluation.





## One Framework to Rule Them All: Unifying RL-Based and RL-Free Methods in RLHF
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.19523v1
- **Authors**: ['Xin Cai']
- **Abstrat**: In this article, we primarily examine a variety of RL-based and RL-free methods designed to address Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) and Large Reasoning Models (LRMs). We begin with a concise overview of the typical steps involved in RLHF and LRMs. Next, we reinterpret several RL-based and RL-free algorithms through the perspective of neural structured bandit prediction, providing a clear conceptual framework that uncovers a deeper connection between these seemingly distinct approaches. Following this, we briefly review some core principles of reinforcement learning, drawing attention to an often-overlooked aspect in existing RLHF studies. This leads to a detailed derivation of the standard RLHF objective within a full RL context, demonstrating its equivalence to neural structured bandit prediction. Finally, by reinvestigating the principles behind Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO), we pinpoint areas needing adjustment, which culminates in the introduction of the Generalized Reinforce Optimization (GRO) framework, seamlessly integrating RL-based and RL-free methods in RLHF. We look forward to the community's efforts to empirically validate GRO and invite constructive feedback.





## ReSearch: Learning to Reason with Search for LLMs via Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.19470v1
- **Authors**: ['Mingyang Chen', 'Tianpeng Li', 'Haoze Sun', 'Yijie Zhou', 'Chenzheng Zhu', 'Fan Yang', 'Zenan Zhou', 'Weipeng Chen', 'Haofen Wang', 'Jeff Z. Pan', 'Wen Zhang', 'Huajun Chen']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown remarkable capabilities in reasoning, exemplified by the success of OpenAI-o1 and DeepSeek-R1. However, integrating reasoning with external search processes remains challenging, especially for complex multi-hop questions requiring multiple retrieval steps. We propose ReSearch, a novel framework that trains LLMs to Reason with Search via reinforcement learning without using any supervised data on reasoning steps. Our approach treats search operations as integral components of the reasoning chain, where when and how to perform searches is guided by text-based thinking, and search results subsequently influence further reasoning. We train ReSearch on Qwen2.5-7B(-Instruct) and Qwen2.5-32B(-Instruct) models and conduct extensive experiments. Despite being trained on only one dataset, our models demonstrate strong generalizability across various benchmarks. Analysis reveals that ReSearch naturally elicits advanced reasoning capabilities such as reflection and self-correction during the reinforcement learning process.





## Large Language Model for Patent Concept Generation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.00092v2
- **Authors**: ['Runtao Ren', 'Jian Ma', 'Jianxi Luo']
- **Abstrat**: In traditional innovation practices, concept and IP generation are often iteratively integrated. Both processes demand an intricate understanding of advanced technical domain knowledge. Existing large language models (LLMs), while possessing massive pre-trained knowledge, often fall short in the innovative concept generation due to a lack of specialized knowledge necessary for the generation. To bridge this critical gap, we propose a novel knowledge finetuning (KFT) framework to endow LLM-based AI with the ability to autonomously mine, understand, and apply domain-specific knowledge and concepts for invention generation, i.e., concept and patent generation together. Our proposed PatentGPT integrates knowledge injection pre-training (KPT), domain-specific supervised finetuning (SFT), and reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF). Extensive evaluation shows that PatentGPT significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art models on patent-related benchmark tests. Our method not only provides new insights into data-driven innovation but also paves a new path to fine-tune LLMs for applications in the context of technology. We also discuss the managerial and policy implications of AI-generating inventions in the future.





## Multi-Agent Deep Reinforcement Learning for Safe Autonomous Driving with RICS-Assisted MEC
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.19418v1
- **Authors**: ['Xueyao Zhang', 'Bo Yang', 'Xuelin Cao', 'Zhiwen Yu', 'George C. Alexandropoulos', 'Yan Zhang', 'Merouane Debbah', 'Chau Yuen']
- **Abstrat**: Environment sensing and fusion via onboard sensors are envisioned to be widely applied in future autonomous driving networks. This paper considers a vehicular system with multiple self-driving vehicles that is assisted by multi-access edge computing (MEC), where image data collected by the sensors is offloaded from cellular vehicles to the MEC server using vehicle-to-infrastructure (V2I) links. Sensory data can also be shared among surrounding vehicles via vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) communication links. To improve spectrum utilization, the V2V links may reuse the same frequency spectrum with V2I links, which may cause severe interference. To tackle this issue, we leverage reconfigurable intelligent computational surfaces (RICSs) to jointly enable V2I reflective links and mitigate interference appearing at the V2V links. Considering the limitations of traditional algorithms in addressing this problem, such as the assumption for quasi-static channel state information, which restricts their ability to adapt to dynamic environmental changes and leads to poor performance under frequently varying channel conditions, in this paper, we formulate the problem at hand as a Markov game. Our novel formulation is applied to time-varying channels subject to multi-user interference and introduces a collaborative learning mechanism among users. The considered optimization problem is solved via a driving safety-enabled multi-agent deep reinforcement learning (DS-MADRL) approach that capitalizes on the RICS presence. Our extensive numerical investigations showcase that the proposed reinforcement learning approach achieves faster convergence and significant enhancements in both data rate and driving safety, as compared to various state-of-the-art benchmarks.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## A Schema-aware Logic Reformulation for Graph Reachability
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.02533v2
- **Authors**: ['Davide Di Pierro', 'Stephan Mennicke', 'Stefano Ferilli']
- **Abstrat**: Graph reachability is the task of understanding whether two distinct points in a graph are interconnected by arcs to which in general a semantic is attached. Reachability has plenty of applications, ranging from motion planning to routing. Improving reachability requires structural knowledge of relations so as to avoid the complexity of traditional depth-first and breadth-first strategies, implemented in logic languages. In some contexts, graphs are enriched with their schema definitions establishing domain and range for every arc. The introduction of a schema-aware formalization for guiding the search may result in a sensitive improvement by cutting out unuseful paths and prioritising those that, in principle, reach the target earlier. In this work, we propose a strategy to automatically exclude and sort certain graph paths by exploiting the higher-level conceptualization of instances. The aim is to obtain a new first-order logic reformulation of the graph reachability scenario, capable of improving the traditional algorithms in terms of time, space requirements, and number of backtracks. The experiments exhibit the expected advantages of the approach in reducing the number of backtracks during the search strategy, resulting in saving time and space as well.




