# reinforcement learning
## Toward Efficient Exploration by Large Language Model Agents
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.20997v1
- **Authors**: ['Dilip Arumugam', 'Thomas L. Griffiths']
- **Abstrat**: A burgeoning area within reinforcement learning (RL) is the design of sequential decision-making agents centered around large language models (LLMs). While autonomous decision-making agents powered by modern LLMs could facilitate numerous real-world applications, such successes demand agents that are capable of data-efficient RL. One key obstacle to achieving data efficiency in RL is exploration, a challenge that we demonstrate many recent proposals for LLM agent designs struggle to contend with. Meanwhile, classic algorithms from the RL literature known to gracefully address exploration require technical machinery that can be challenging to operationalize in purely natural language settings. In this work, rather than relying on finetuning or in-context learning to coax LLMs into implicitly imitating a RL algorithm, we illustrate how LLMs can be used to explicitly implement an existing RL algorithm (Posterior Sampling for Reinforcement Learning) whose capacity for statistically-efficient exploration is already well-studied. We offer empirical results demonstrating how our LLM-based implementation of a known, data-efficient RL algorithm can be considerably more effective in natural language tasks that demand prudent exploration.





## XPG-RL: Reinforcement Learning with Explainable Priority Guidance for Efficiency-Boosted Mechanical Search
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.20969v1
- **Authors**: ['Yiting Zhang', 'Shichen Li', 'Elena Shrestha']
- **Abstrat**: Mechanical search (MS) in cluttered environments remains a significant challenge for autonomous manipulators, requiring long-horizon planning and robust state estimation under occlusions and partial observability. In this work, we introduce XPG-RL, a reinforcement learning framework that enables agents to efficiently perform MS tasks through explainable, priority-guided decision-making based on raw sensory inputs. XPG-RL integrates a task-driven action prioritization mechanism with a learned context-aware switching strategy that dynamically selects from a discrete set of action primitives such as target grasping, occlusion removal, and viewpoint adjustment. Within this strategy, a policy is optimized to output adaptive threshold values that govern the discrete selection among action primitives. The perception module fuses RGB-D inputs with semantic and geometric features to produce a structured scene representation for downstream decision-making. Extensive experiments in both simulation and real-world settings demonstrate that XPG-RL consistently outperforms baseline methods in task success rates and motion efficiency, achieving up to 4.5$\times$ higher efficiency in long-horizon tasks. These results underscore the benefits of integrating domain knowledge with learnable decision-making policies for robust and efficient robotic manipulation.





## Improvements of Dark Experience Replay and Reservoir Sampling towards Better Balance between Consolidation and Plasticity
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.20932v1
- **Authors**: ['Taisuke Kobayashi']
- **Abstrat**: Continual learning is the one of the most essential abilities for autonomous agents, which can incrementally learn daily-life skills. For this ultimate goal, a simple but powerful method, dark experience replay (DER), has been proposed recently. DER mitigates catastrophic forgetting, in which the skills acquired in the past are unintentionally forgotten, by stochastically storing the streaming data in a reservoir sampling (RS) buffer and by relearning them or retaining the past outputs for them. However, since DER considers multiple objectives, it will not function properly without appropriate weighting of them. In addition, the ability to retain past outputs inhibits learning if the past outputs are incorrect due to distribution shift or other effects. This is due to a tradeoff between memory consolidation and plasticity. The tradeoff is hidden even in the RS buffer, which gradually stops storing new data for new skills in it as data is continuously passed to it. To alleviate the tradeoff and achieve better balance, this paper proposes improvement strategies to each of DER and RS. Specifically, DER is improved with automatic adaptation of weights, block of replaying erroneous data, and correction of past outputs. RS is also improved with generalization of acceptance probability, stratification of plural buffers, and intentional omission of unnecessary data. These improvements are verified through multiple benchmarks including regression, classification, and reinforcement learning problems. As a result, the proposed methods achieve steady improvements in learning performance by balancing the memory consolidation and plasticity.





## ChestX-Reasoner: Advancing Radiology Foundation Models with Reasoning through Step-by-Step Verification
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.20930v1
- **Authors**: ['Ziqing Fan', 'Cheng Liang', 'Chaoyi Wu', 'Ya Zhang', 'Yanfeng Wang', 'Weidi Xie']
- **Abstrat**: Recent advances in reasoning-enhanced large language models (LLMs) and multimodal LLMs (MLLMs) have significantly improved performance in complex tasks, yet medical AI models often overlook the structured reasoning processes inherent in clinical practice. In this work, we present ChestX-Reasoner, a radiology diagnosis MLLM designed to leverage process supervision mined directly from clinical reports, reflecting the step-by-step reasoning followed by radiologists. We construct a large dataset by extracting and refining reasoning chains from routine radiology reports. Our two-stage training framework combines supervised fine-tuning and reinforcement learning guided by process rewards to better align model reasoning with clinical standards. We introduce RadRBench-CXR, a comprehensive benchmark featuring 59K visual question answering samples with 301K clinically validated reasoning steps, and propose RadRScore, a metric evaluating reasoning factuality, completeness, and effectiveness. ChestX-Reasoner outperforms existing medical and general-domain MLLMs in both diagnostic accuracy and reasoning ability, achieving 16%, 5.9%, and 18% improvements in reasoning ability compared to the best medical MLLM, the best general MLLM, and its base model, respectively, as well as 3.3%, 24%, and 27% improvements in outcome accuracy. All resources are open-sourced to facilitate further research in medical reasoning MLLMs.





## Exploiting inter-agent coupling information for efficient reinforcement learning of cooperative LQR
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.20927v1
- **Authors**: ['Shahbaz P Qadri Syed', 'He Bai']
- **Abstrat**: Developing scalable and efficient reinforcement learning algorithms for cooperative multi-agent control has received significant attention over the past years. Existing literature has proposed inexact decompositions of local Q-functions based on empirical information structures between the agents. In this paper, we exploit inter-agent coupling information and propose a systematic approach to exactly decompose the local Q-function of each agent. We develop an approximate least square policy iteration algorithm based on the proposed decomposition and identify two architectures to learn the local Q-function for each agent. We establish that the worst-case sample complexity of the decomposition is equal to the centralized case and derive necessary and sufficient graphical conditions on the inter-agent couplings to achieve better sample efficiency. We demonstrate the improved sample efficiency and computational efficiency on numerical examples.





## A Domain-Agnostic Scalable AI Safety Ensuring Framework
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.20924v1
- **Authors**: ['Beomjun Kim', 'Kangyeon Kim', 'Sunwoo Kim', 'Heejin Ahn']
- **Abstrat**: Ensuring the safety of AI systems has recently emerged as a critical priority for real-world deployment, particularly in physical AI applications. Current approaches to AI safety typically address predefined domain-specific safety conditions, limiting their ability to generalize across contexts.   We propose a novel AI safety framework that ensures AI systems comply with \textbf{any user-defined constraint}, with \textbf{any desired probability}, and across \textbf{various domains}.   In this framework, we combine an AI component (e.g., neural network) with an optimization problem to produce responses that minimize objectives while satisfying user-defined constraints with probabilities exceeding user-defined thresholds. For credibility assessment of the AI component, we propose \textit{internal test data}, a supplementary set of safety-labeled data, and a \textit{conservative testing} methodology that provides statistical validity of using internal test data. We also present an approximation method of a loss function and how to compute its gradient for training.   We mathematically prove that probabilistic constraint satisfaction is guaranteed under specific, mild conditions and prove a scaling law between safety and the number of internal test data. We demonstrate our framework's effectiveness through experiments in diverse domains: demand prediction for production decision, safe reinforcement learning within the SafetyGym simulator, and guarding AI chatbot outputs. Through these experiments, we demonstrate that our method guarantees safety for user-specified constraints, outperforms {for \textbf{up to several order of magnitudes}} existing methods in low safety threshold regions, and scales effectively with respect to the size of internal test data.





## Foundations of Safe Online Reinforcement Learning in the Linear Quadratic Regulator: Generalized Baselines
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.21081v2
- **Authors**: ['Benjamin Schiffer', 'Lucas Janson']
- **Abstrat**: Many practical applications of online reinforcement learning require the satisfaction of safety constraints while learning about the unknown environment. In this work, we establish theoretical foundations for reinforcement learning with safety constraints by studying the canonical problem of Linear Quadratic Regulator learning with unknown dynamics, but with the additional constraint that the position must stay within a safe region for the entire trajectory with high probability. Our primary contribution is a general framework for studying stronger baselines of nonlinear controllers that are better suited for constrained problems than linear controllers. Due to the difficulty of analyzing non-linear controllers in a constrained problem, we focus on 1-dimensional state- and action- spaces, however we also discuss how we expect the high-level takeaways can generalize to higher dimensions. Using our framework, we show that for \emph{any} non-linear baseline satisfying natural assumptions, $\tilde{O}_T(\sqrt{T})$-regret is possible when the noise distribution has sufficiently large support, and $\tilde{O}_T(T^{2/3})$-regret is possible for \emph{any} subgaussian noise distribution. In proving these results, we introduce a new uncertainty estimation bound for nonlinear controls which shows that enforcing safety in the presence of sufficient noise can provide ``free exploration'' that compensates for the added cost of uncertainty in safety-constrained control.





## Reinforcement Learning for LLM Reasoning Under Memory Constraints
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.20834v1
- **Authors**: ['Alan Lee', 'Harry Tong']
- **Abstrat**: We explore reinforcement learning (RL) techniques to enhance reasoning within targeted problem spaces in large language models (LLMs) under memory and compute constraints. Our focus is on critic-free methods compatible with LoRA fine-tuning on a single 40GB GPU, a common limitation in academic settings. We introduce S-GRPO, a memory-efficient variant of Group Relative Policy Optimization, and T-SPMO, a token-level prefix matching strategy for fine-grained credit assignment. Despite limited resources, when used to fine-tune Qwen2-1.5B both methods significantly improve SVAMP benchmark accuracy from 46% to above 70% using LoRA training. T-SPMO also excels in multi-digit multiplication tasks, underscoring the potential of RL fine-tuning under hardware constraints. Additionally, we find that our full-token GRPO baseline under LoRA fine-tuning did not improve model performance (compared to base model) on either task, suggesting that our memory-efficient methods may act as a form of regularization that stabilizes training when only a small subset of parameters are updated.





## SoccerDiffusion: Toward Learning End-to-End Humanoid Robot Soccer from Gameplay Recordings
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.20808v1
- **Authors**: ['Florian Vahl', 'Jörn Griepenburg', 'Jan Gutsche', 'Jasper Güldenstein', 'Jianwei Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: This paper introduces SoccerDiffusion, a transformer-based diffusion model designed to learn end-to-end control policies for humanoid robot soccer directly from real-world gameplay recordings. Using data collected from RoboCup competitions, the model predicts joint command trajectories from multi-modal sensor inputs, including vision, proprioception, and game state. We employ a distillation technique to enable real-time inference on embedded platforms that reduces the multi-step diffusion process to a single step. Our results demonstrate the model's ability to replicate complex motion behaviors such as walking, kicking, and fall recovery both in simulation and on physical robots. Although high-level tactical behavior remains limited, this work provides a robust foundation for subsequent reinforcement learning or preference optimization methods. We release the dataset, pretrained models, and code under: https://bit-bots.github.io/SoccerDiffusion





## Q-Fusion: Diffusing Quantum Circuits
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.20794v1
- **Authors**: ['Collin Beaudoin', 'Swaroop Ghosh']
- **Abstrat**: Quantum computing holds great potential for solving socially relevant and computationally complex problems. Furthermore, quantum machine learning (QML) promises to rapidly improve our current machine learning capabilities. However, current noisy intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) devices are constrained by limitations in the number of qubits and gate counts, which hinder their full capabilities. Furthermore, the design of quantum algorithms remains a laborious task, requiring significant domain expertise and time. Quantum Architecture Search (QAS) aims to streamline this process by automatically generating novel quantum circuits, reducing the need for manual intervention. In this paper, we propose a diffusion-based algorithm leveraging the LayerDAG framework to generate new quantum circuits. This method contrasts with other approaches that utilize large language models (LLMs), reinforcement learning (RL), variational autoencoders (VAE), and similar techniques. Our results demonstrate that the proposed model consistently generates 100% valid quantum circuit outputs.





## Integrating Human Feedback into a Reinforcement Learning-Based Framework for Adaptive User Interfaces
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.20782v1
- **Authors**: ['Daniel Gaspar-Figueiredo', 'Marta Fernández-Diego', 'Silvia Abrahão', 'Emilio Insfran']
- **Abstrat**: Adaptive User Interfaces (AUI) play a crucial role in modern software applications by dynamically adjusting interface elements to accommodate users' diverse and evolving needs. However, existing adaptation strategies often lack real-time responsiveness. Reinforcement Learning (RL) has emerged as a promising approach for addressing complex, sequential adaptation challenges, enabling adaptive systems to learn optimal policies based on previous adaptation experiences. Although RL has been applied to AUIs,integrating RL agents effectively within user interactions remains a challenge.   In this paper, we enhance a RL-based Adaptive User Interface adaption framework by incorporating personalized human feedback directly into the leaning process. Unlike prior approaches that rely on a single pre-trained RL model, our approach trains a unique RL agent for each user, allowing individuals to actively shape their personal RL agent's policy, potentially leading to more personalized and responsive UI adaptations. To evaluate this approach, we conducted an empirical study to assess the impact of integrating human feedback into the RL-based Adaptive User Interface adaption framework and its effect on User Experience (UX). The study involved 33 participants interacting with AUIs incorporating human feedback and non-adaptive user interfaces in two domains: an e-learning platform and a trip-planning application. The results suggest that incorporating human feedback into RL-driven adaptations significantly enhances UX, offering promising directions for advancing adaptive capabilities and user-centered design in AUIs.





## Intelligent Task Offloading in VANETs: A Hybrid AI-Driven Approach for Low-Latency and Energy Efficiency
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.20735v1
- **Authors**: ['Tariq Qayyum', 'Asadullah Tariq', 'Muhammad Ali', 'Mohamed Adel Serhani', 'Zouheir Trabelsi', 'Maite López-Sánchez']
- **Abstrat**: Vehicular Ad-hoc Networks (VANETs) are integral to intelligent transportation systems, enabling vehicles to offload computational tasks to nearby roadside units (RSUs) and mobile edge computing (MEC) servers for real-time processing. However, the highly dynamic nature of VANETs introduces challenges, such as unpredictable network conditions, high latency, energy inefficiency, and task failure. This research addresses these issues by proposing a hybrid AI framework that integrates supervised learning, reinforcement learning, and Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) for intelligent task offloading and resource allocation. The framework leverages supervised models for predicting optimal offloading strategies, reinforcement learning for adaptive decision-making, and PSO for optimizing latency and energy consumption. Extensive simulations demonstrate that the proposed framework achieves significant reductions in latency and energy usage while improving task success rates and network throughput. By offering an efficient, and scalable solution, this framework sets the foundation for enhancing real-time applications in dynamic vehicular environments.





## High-Performance Reinforcement Learning on Spot: Optimizing Simulation Parameters with Distributional Measures
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.17857v2
- **Authors**: ['AJ Miller', 'Fangzhou Yu', 'Michael Brauckmann', 'Farbod Farshidian']
- **Abstrat**: This work presents an overview of the technical details behind a high performance reinforcement learning policy deployment with the Spot RL Researcher Development Kit for low level motor access on Boston Dynamics Spot. This represents the first public demonstration of an end to end end reinforcement learning policy deployed on Spot hardware with training code publicly available through Nvidia IsaacLab and deployment code available through Boston Dynamics. We utilize Wasserstein Distance and Maximum Mean Discrepancy to quantify the distributional dissimilarity of data collected on hardware and in simulation to measure our sim2real gap. We use these measures as a scoring function for the Covariance Matrix Adaptation Evolution Strategy to optimize simulated parameters that are unknown or difficult to measure from Spot. Our procedure for modeling and training produces high quality reinforcement learning policies capable of multiple gaits, including a flight phase. We deploy policies capable of over 5.2ms locomotion, more than triple Spots default controller maximum speed, robustness to slippery surfaces, disturbance rejection, and overall agility previously unseen on Spot. We detail our method and release our code to support future work on Spot with the low level API.





## Towards Principled Multi-Agent Task Agnostic Exploration
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2502.08365v2
- **Authors**: ['Riccardo Zamboni', 'Mirco Mutti', 'Marcello Restelli']
- **Abstrat**: In reinforcement learning, we typically refer to task-agnostic exploration when we aim to explore the environment without access to the task specification a priori. In a single-agent setting the problem has been extensively studied and mostly understood. A popular approach cast the task-agnostic objective as maximizing the entropy of the state distribution induced by the agent's policy, from which principles and methods follows. In contrast, little is known about task-agnostic exploration in multi-agent settings, which are ubiquitous in the real world. How should different agents explore in the presence of others? In this paper, we address this question through a generalization to multiple agents of the problem of maximizing the state distribution entropy. First, we investigate alternative formulations, highlighting respective positives and negatives. Then, we present a scalable, decentralized, trust-region policy search algorithm to address the problem in practical settings. Finally, we provide proof of concept experiments to both corroborate the theoretical findings and pave the way for task-agnostic exploration in challenging multi-agent settings.





## SR-Reward: Taking The Path More Traveled
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.02330v2
- **Authors**: ['Seyed Mahdi B. Azad', 'Zahra Padar', 'Gabriel Kalweit', 'Joschka Boedecker']
- **Abstrat**: In this paper, we propose a novel method for learning reward functions directly from offline demonstrations. Unlike traditional inverse reinforcement learning (IRL), our approach decouples the reward function from the learner's policy, eliminating the adversarial interaction typically required between the two. This results in a more stable and efficient training process. Our reward function, called \textit{SR-Reward}, leverages successor representation (SR) to encode a state based on expected future states' visitation under the demonstration policy and transition dynamics. By utilizing the Bellman equation, SR-Reward can be learned concurrently with most reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms without altering the existing training pipeline. We also introduce a negative sampling strategy to mitigate overestimation errors by reducing rewards for out-of-distribution data, thereby enhancing robustness. This strategy inherently introduces a conservative bias into RL algorithms that employ the learned reward. We evaluate our method on the D4RL benchmark, achieving competitive results compared to offline RL algorithms with access to true rewards and imitation learning (IL) techniques like behavioral cloning. Moreover, our ablation studies on data size and quality reveal the advantages and limitations of SR-Reward as a proxy for true rewards.





## Quantum-Enhanced Hybrid Reinforcement Learning Framework for Dynamic Path Planning in Autonomous Systems
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.20660v1
- **Authors**: ['Sahil Tomar', 'Shamshe Alam', 'Sandeep Kumar', 'Amit Mathur']
- **Abstrat**: In this paper, a novel quantum classical hybrid framework is proposed that synergizes quantum with Classical Reinforcement Learning. By leveraging the inherent parallelism of quantum computing, the proposed approach generates robust Q tables and specialized turn cost estimations, which are then integrated with a classical Reinforcement Learning pipeline. The Classical Quantum fusion results in rapid convergence of training, reducing the training time significantly and improved adaptability in scenarios featuring static, dynamic, and moving obstacles. Simulator based evaluations demonstrate significant enhancements in path efficiency, trajectory smoothness, and mission success rates, underscoring the potential of framework for real time, autonomous navigation in complex and unpredictable environments. Furthermore, the proposed framework was tested beyond simulations on practical scenarios, including real world map data such as the IIT Delhi campus, reinforcing its potential for real time, autonomous navigation in complex and unpredictable environments.





## Independent Learning in Performative Markov Potential Games
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.20593v1
- **Authors**: ['Rilind Sahitaj', 'Paulius Sasnauskas', 'Yiğit Yalın', 'Debmalya Mandal', 'Goran Radanović']
- **Abstrat**: Performative Reinforcement Learning (PRL) refers to a scenario in which the deployed policy changes the reward and transition dynamics of the underlying environment. In this work, we study multi-agent PRL by incorporating performative effects into Markov Potential Games (MPGs). We introduce the notion of a performatively stable equilibrium (PSE) and show that it always exists under a reasonable sensitivity assumption. We then provide convergence results for state-of-the-art algorithms used to solve MPGs. Specifically, we show that independent policy gradient ascent (IPGA) and independent natural policy gradient (INPG) converge to an approximate PSE in the best-iterate sense, with an additional term that accounts for the performative effects. Furthermore, we show that INPG asymptotically converges to a PSE in the last-iterate sense. As the performative effects vanish, we recover the convergence rates from prior work. For a special case of our game, we provide finite-time last-iterate convergence results for a repeated retraining approach, in which agents independently optimize a surrogate objective. We conduct extensive experiments to validate our theoretical findings.





## Reinforcement Learning for Reasoning in Large Language Models with One Training Example
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.20571v1
- **Authors**: ['Yiping Wang', 'Qing Yang', 'Zhiyuan Zeng', 'Liliang Ren', 'Lucas Liu', 'Baolin Peng', 'Hao Cheng', 'Xuehai He', 'Kuan Wang', 'Jianfeng Gao', 'Weizhu Chen', 'Shuohang Wang', 'Simon Shaolei Du', 'Yelong Shen']
- **Abstrat**: We show that reinforcement learning with verifiable reward using one training example (1-shot RLVR) is effective in incentivizing the math reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs). Applying RLVR to the base model Qwen2.5-Math-1.5B, we identify a single example that elevates model performance on MATH500 from 36.0% to 73.6%, and improves the average performance across six common mathematical reasoning benchmarks from 17.6% to 35.7%. This result matches the performance obtained using the 1.2k DeepScaleR subset (MATH500: 73.6%, average: 35.9%), which includes the aforementioned example. Similar substantial improvements are observed across various models (Qwen2.5-Math-7B, Llama3.2-3B-Instruct, DeepSeek-R1-Distill-Qwen-1.5B), RL algorithms (GRPO and PPO), and different math examples (many of which yield approximately 30% or greater improvement on MATH500 when employed as a single training example). In addition, we identify some interesting phenomena during 1-shot RLVR, including cross-domain generalization, increased frequency of self-reflection, and sustained test performance improvement even after the training accuracy has saturated, a phenomenon we term post-saturation generalization. Moreover, we verify that the effectiveness of 1-shot RLVR primarily arises from the policy gradient loss, distinguishing it from the "grokking" phenomenon. We also show the critical role of promoting exploration (e.g., by adding entropy loss with an appropriate coefficient) in 1-shot RLVR training. As a bonus, we observe that applying entropy loss alone, without any outcome reward, significantly enhances Qwen2.5-Math-1.5B's performance on MATH500 by 27.4%. These findings can inspire future work on RLVR data efficiency and encourage a re-examination of both recent progress and the underlying mechanisms in RLVR. Our code, model, and data are open source at https://github.com/ypwang61/One-Shot-RLVR





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Opinion-Driven Decision-Making for Multi-Robot Navigation through Narrow Corridors
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.20947v1
- **Authors**: ['Norah K. Alghamdi', 'Shinkyu Park']
- **Abstrat**: We propose an opinion-driven navigation framework for multi-robot traversal through a narrow corridor. Our approach leverages a multi-agent decision-making model known as the Nonlinear Opinion Dynamics (NOD) to address the narrow corridor passage problem, formulated as a multi-robot navigation game. By integrating the NOD model with a multi-robot path planning algorithm, we demonstrate that the framework effectively reduces the likelihood of deadlocks during corridor traversal. To ensure scalability with an increasing number of robots, we introduce a game reduction technique that enables efficient coordination in larger groups. Extensive simulation studies are conducted to validate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.





## Hierarchical Temporal Logic Task and Motion Planning for Multi-Robot Systems
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.18899v2
- **Authors**: ['Zhongqi Wei', 'Xusheng Luo', 'Changliu Liu']
- **Abstrat**: Task and motion planning (TAMP) for multi-robot systems, which integrates discrete task planning with continuous motion planning, remains a challenging problem in robotics. Existing TAMP approaches often struggle to scale effectively for multi-robot systems with complex specifications, leading to infeasible solutions and prolonged computation times. This work addresses the TAMP problem in multi-robot settings where tasks are specified using expressive hierarchical temporal logic and task assignments are not pre-determined. Our approach leverages the efficiency of hierarchical temporal logic specifications for task-level planning and the optimization-based graph of convex sets method for motion-level planning, integrating them within a product graph framework. At the task level, we convert hierarchical temporal logic specifications into a single graph, embedding task allocation within its edges. At the motion level, we represent the feasible motions of multiple robots through convex sets in the configuration space, guided by a sampling-based motion planner. This formulation allows us to define the TAMP problem as a shortest path search within the product graph, where efficient convex optimization techniques can be applied. We prove that our approach is both sound and complete under mild assumptions. Additionally, we extend our framework to cooperative pick-and-place tasks involving object handovers between robots. We evaluate our method across various high-dimensional multi-robot scenarios, including simulated and real-world environments with quadrupeds, robotic arms, and automated conveyor systems. Our results show that our approach outperforms existing methods in execution time and solution optimality while effectively scaling with task complexity.





## A High-Granularity Proton CT Enhanced by Track Discrimination
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.20698v1
- **Authors**: ['Huang-Chao Shi', 'Dan-Qi Wang', 'Mei-Qi Liu', 'Yi-Dong Yang', 'Bao-Hua Qi', 'Yong Liu', 'Yang-Hui Qin', 'Chang-Qing Feng', 'Yi Liu', 'Hong-Bo Zhu']
- **Abstrat**: Proton Computed Tomography (pCT) provides a promising solution to enhance the accuracy of Relative Stopping Power (RSP) required for proton therapy planning. This research introduces a novel high-granularity pCT architecture that incorporates a silicon pixel tracking system and a calorimetric range telescope, which uniquely integrates range telescope functionality with track discrimination capabilities. The Bortfeld function fitting and Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) classifier algorithms are developed and applied for discrimination. In simulation studies, both approaches demonstrate the capability to reduce uncertainty in Water Equivalent Path Length (WEPL) determination for individual proton tracks to below 3~mm. The standard imaging protocol (3.2~mGy, $4\times10^{8}$ protons) achieves sub-millimeter spatial resolution ($\sim$0.5 mm) with sub-1\% RSP accuracy. With proton count requirements reduced by track discrimination, an ultra-low-dose protocol (0.16~mGy, $2\times10^{7}$~protons) is proposed with achieved sub-1\% RSP accuracy and $\sim$1.1~mm spatial resolution in simulation. This low-dose performance significantly expands clinical applicability, particularly for pediatric imaging or frequent imaging scenarios. Furthermore, the target 10 MHz proton detection rate suggests potential for real-time image guidance during radiotherapy. By circumventing the need for ultra-precise energy measurements, this design minimizes hardware complexity and provides a scalable foundation for future pCT systems.





## Learned Perceptive Forward Dynamics Model for Safe and Platform-aware Robotic Navigation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.19322v2
- **Authors**: ['Pascal Roth', 'Jonas Frey', 'Cesar Cadena', 'Marco Hutter']
- **Abstrat**: Ensuring safe navigation in complex environments requires accurate real-time traversability assessment and understanding of environmental interactions relative to the robot`s capabilities. Traditional methods, which assume simplified dynamics, often require designing and tuning cost functions to safely guide paths or actions toward the goal. This process is tedious, environment-dependent, and not generalizable. To overcome these issues, we propose a novel learned perceptive Forward Dynamics Model (FDM) that predicts the robot`s future state conditioned on the surrounding geometry and history of proprioceptive measurements, proposing a more scalable, safer, and heuristic-free solution. The FDM is trained on multiple years of simulated navigation experience, including high-risk maneuvers, and real-world interactions to incorporate the full system dynamics beyond rigid body simulation. We integrate our perceptive FDM into a zero-shot Model Predictive Path Integral (MPPI) planning framework, leveraging the learned mapping between actions, future states, and failure probability. This allows for optimizing a simplified cost function, eliminating the need for extensive cost-tuning to ensure safety. On the legged robot ANYmal, the proposed perceptive FDM improves the position estimation by on average 41% over competitive baselines, which translates into a 27% higher navigation success rate in rough simulation environments. Moreover, we demonstrate effective sim-to-real transfer and showcase the benefit of training on synthetic and real data. Code and models are made publicly available under https://github.com/leggedrobotics/fdm.




