# reinforcement learning
## Vid2Sim: Realistic and Interactive Simulation from Video for Urban Navigation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.06693v2
- **Authors**: ['Ziyang Xie', 'Zhizheng Liu', 'Zhenghao Peng', 'Wayne Wu', 'Bolei Zhou']
- **Abstrat**: Sim-to-real gap has long posed a significant challenge for robot learning in simulation, preventing the deployment of learned models in the real world. Previous work has primarily focused on domain randomization and system identification to mitigate this gap. However, these methods are often limited by the inherent constraints of the simulation and graphics engines. In this work, we propose Vid2Sim, a novel framework that effectively bridges the sim2real gap through a scalable and cost-efficient real2sim pipeline for neural 3D scene reconstruction and simulation. Given a monocular video as input, Vid2Sim can generate photorealistic and physically interactable 3D simulation environments to enable the reinforcement learning of visual navigation agents in complex urban environments. Extensive experiments demonstrate that Vid2Sim significantly improves the performance of urban navigation in the digital twins and real world by 31.2% and 68.3% in success rate compared with agents trained with prior simulation methods.





## FDPP: Fine-tune Diffusion Policy with Human Preference
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.08259v1
- **Authors**: ['Yuxin Chen', 'Devesh K. Jha', 'Masayoshi Tomizuka', 'Diego Romeres']
- **Abstrat**: Imitation learning from human demonstrations enables robots to perform complex manipulation tasks and has recently witnessed huge success. However, these techniques often struggle to adapt behavior to new preferences or changes in the environment. To address these limitations, we propose Fine-tuning Diffusion Policy with Human Preference (FDPP). FDPP learns a reward function through preference-based learning. This reward is then used to fine-tune the pre-trained policy with reinforcement learning (RL), resulting in alignment of pre-trained policy with new human preferences while still solving the original task. Our experiments across various robotic tasks and preferences demonstrate that FDPP effectively customizes policy behavior without compromising performance. Additionally, we show that incorporating Kullback-Leibler (KL) regularization during fine-tuning prevents over-fitting and helps maintain the competencies of the initial policy.





## Dynamic Pricing in High-Speed Railways Using Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.08234v1
- **Authors**: ['Enrique Adrian Villarrubia-Martin', 'Luis Rodriguez-Benitez', 'David Muñoz-Valero', 'Giovanni Montana', 'Luis Jimenez-Linares']
- **Abstrat**: This paper addresses a critical challenge in the high-speed passenger railway industry: designing effective dynamic pricing strategies in the context of competing and cooperating operators. To address this, a multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) framework based on a non-zero-sum Markov game is proposed, incorporating random utility models to capture passenger decision making. Unlike prior studies in areas such as energy, airlines, and mobile networks, dynamic pricing for railway systems using deep reinforcement learning has received limited attention. A key contribution of this paper is a parametrisable and versatile reinforcement learning simulator designed to model a variety of railway network configurations and demand patterns while enabling realistic, microscopic modelling of user behaviour, called RailPricing-RL. This environment supports the proposed MARL framework, which models heterogeneous agents competing to maximise individual profits while fostering cooperative behaviour to synchronise connecting services. Experimental results validate the framework, demonstrating how user preferences affect MARL performance and how pricing policies influence passenger choices, utility, and overall system dynamics. This study provides a foundation for advancing dynamic pricing strategies in railway systems, aligning profitability with system-wide efficiency, and supporting future research on optimising pricing policies.





## Pareto Set Learning for Multi-Objective Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.06773v2
- **Authors**: ['Erlong Liu', 'Yu-Chang Wu', 'Xiaobin Huang', 'Chengrui Gao', 'Ren-Jian Wang', 'Ke Xue', 'Chao Qian']
- **Abstrat**: Multi-objective decision-making problems have emerged in numerous real-world scenarios, such as video games, navigation and robotics. Considering the clear advantages of Reinforcement Learning (RL) in optimizing decision-making processes, researchers have delved into the development of Multi-Objective RL (MORL) methods for solving multi-objective decision problems. However, previous methods either cannot obtain the entire Pareto front, or employ only a single policy network for all the preferences over multiple objectives, which may not produce personalized solutions for each preference. To address these limitations, we propose a novel decomposition-based framework for MORL, Pareto Set Learning for MORL (PSL-MORL), that harnesses the generation capability of hypernetwork to produce the parameters of the policy network for each decomposition weight, generating relatively distinct policies for various scalarized subproblems with high efficiency. PSL-MORL is a general framework, which is compatible for any RL algorithm. The theoretical result guarantees the superiority of the model capacity of PSL-MORL and the optimality of the obtained policy network. Through extensive experiments on diverse benchmarks, we demonstrate the effectiveness of PSL-MORL in achieving dense coverage of the Pareto front, significantly outperforming state-of-the-art MORL methods in the hypervolume and sparsity indicators.





## Optimization of Link Configuration for Satellite Communication Using Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.08220v1
- **Authors**: ['Tobias Rohe', 'Michael Kölle', 'Jan Matheis', 'Rüdiger Höpfl', 'Leo Sünkel', 'Claudia Linnhoff-Popien']
- **Abstrat**: Satellite communication is a key technology in our modern connected world. With increasingly complex hardware, one challenge is to efficiently configure links (connections) on a satellite transponder. Planning an optimal link configuration is extremely complex and depends on many parameters and metrics. The optimal use of the limited resources, bandwidth and power of the transponder is crucial. Such an optimization problem can be approximated using metaheuristic methods such as simulated annealing, but recent research results also show that reinforcement learning can achieve comparable or even better performance in optimization methods. However, there have not yet been any studies on link configuration on satellite transponders. In order to close this research gap, a transponder environment was developed as part of this work. For this environment, the performance of the reinforcement learning algorithm PPO was compared with the metaheuristic simulated annealing in two experiments. The results show that Simulated Annealing delivers better results for this static problem than the PPO algorithm, however, the research in turn also underlines the potential of reinforcement learning for optimization problems.





## In-situ graph reasoning and knowledge expansion using Graph-PReFLexOR
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.08120v1
- **Authors**: ['Markus J. Buehler']
- **Abstrat**: The pursuit of automated scientific discovery has fueled progress from symbolic logic to modern AI, forging new frontiers in reasoning and pattern recognition. Transformers function as potential systems, where every possible relationship remains latent potentiality until tasks impose constraints, akin to measurement. Yet, refining their sampling requires more than probabilistic selection: solutions must conform to specific structures or rules, ensuring consistency and the invocation of general principles. We present Graph-PReFLexOR (Graph-based Preference-based Recursive Language Modeling for Exploratory Optimization of Reasoning), a framework that combines graph reasoning with symbolic abstraction to dynamically expand domain knowledge. Inspired by reinforcement learning, Graph-PReFLexOR defines reasoning as a structured mapping, where tasks yield knowledge graphs, abstract patterns, and ultimately, final answers. Inspired by category theory, it encodes concepts as nodes and their relationships as edges, supporting hierarchical inference and adaptive learning through isomorphic representations. Demonstrations include hypothesis generation, materials design, and creative reasoning, such as discovering relationships between mythological concepts like 'thin places' with materials science. We propose a 'knowledge garden growth' strategy that integrates insights across domains, promoting interdisciplinary connections. Results with a 3-billion-parameter Graph-PReFLexOR model show superior reasoning depth and adaptability, underscoring the potential for transparent, multidisciplinary AI-driven discovery. It lays the groundwork for general autonomous reasoning solutions.





## Data-driven inventory management for new products: A warm-start and adjusted Dyna-$Q$ approach
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.08109v1
- **Authors**: ['Xinyu Qu', 'Longxiao Liu', 'Wenjie Huang']
- **Abstrat**: In this paper, we propose a novel reinforcement learning algorithm for inventory management of newly launched products with no or limited historical demand information. The algorithm follows the classic Dyna-$Q$ structure, balancing the model-based and model-free approaches, while accelerating the training process of Dyna-$Q$ and mitigating the model discrepancy generated by the model-based feedback. Warm-start information from the demand data of existing similar products can be incorporated into the algorithm to further stabilize the early-stage training and reduce the variance of the estimated optimal policy. Our approach is validated through a case study of bakery inventory management with real data. The adjusted Dyna-$Q$ shows up to a 23.7\% reduction in average daily cost compared with $Q$-learning, and up to a 77.5\% reduction in training time within the same horizon compared with classic Dyna-$Q$. By incorporating the warm-start information, it can be found that the adjusted Dyna-$Q$ has the lowest total cost, lowest variance in total cost, and relatively low shortage percentages among all the algorithms under a 30-day testing.





## Hybrid Action Based Reinforcement Learning for Multi-Objective Compatible Autonomous Driving
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.08096v1
- **Authors**: ['Guizhe Jin', 'Zhuoren Li', 'Bo Leng', 'Wei Han', 'Lu Xiong', 'Chen Sun']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement Learning (RL) has shown excellent performance in solving decision-making and control problems of autonomous driving, which is increasingly applied in diverse driving scenarios. However, driving is a multi-attribute problem, leading to challenges in achieving multi-objective compatibility for current RL methods, especially in both policy execution and policy iteration. On the one hand, the common action space structure with single action type limits driving flexibility or results in large behavior fluctuations during policy execution. On the other hand, the multi-attribute weighted single reward function result in the agent's disproportionate attention to certain objectives during policy iterations. To this end, we propose a Multi-objective Ensemble-Critic reinforcement learning method with Hybrid Parametrized Action for multi-objective compatible autonomous driving. Specifically, a parameterized action space is constructed to generate hybrid driving actions, combining both abstract guidance and concrete control commands. A multi-objective critics architecture is constructed considering multiple attribute rewards, to ensure simultaneously focusing on different driving objectives. Additionally, uncertainty-based exploration strategy is introduced to help the agent faster approach viable driving policy. The experimental results in both the simulated traffic environment and the HighD dataset demonstrate that our method can achieve multi-objective compatible autonomous driving in terms of driving efficiency, action consistency, and safety. It enhances the general performance of the driving while significantly increasing training efficiency.





## Continual Reinforcement Learning for Digital Twin Synchronization Optimization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.08045v1
- **Authors**: ['Haonan Tong', 'Mingzhe Chen', 'Jun Zhao', 'Ye Hu', 'Zhaohui Yang', 'Yuchen Liu', 'Changchuan Yin']
- **Abstrat**: This article investigates the adaptive resource allocation scheme for digital twin (DT) synchronization optimization over dynamic wireless networks. In our considered model, a base station (BS) continuously collects factory physical object state data from wireless devices to build a real-time virtual DT system for factory event analysis. Due to continuous data transmission, maintaining DT synchronization must use extensive wireless resources. To address this issue, a subset of devices is selected to transmit their sensing data, and resource block (RB) allocation is optimized. This problem is formulated as a constrained Markov process (CMDP) problem that minimizes the long-term mismatch between the physical and virtual systems. To solve this CMDP, we first transform the problem into a dual problem that refines RB constraint impacts on device scheduling strategies. We then propose a continual reinforcement learning (CRL) algorithm to solve the dual problem. The CRL algorithm learns a stable policy across historical experiences for quick adaptation to dynamics in physical states and network capacity. Simulation results show that the CRL can adapt quickly to network capacity changes and reduce normalized root mean square error (NRMSE) between physical and virtual states by up to 55.2%, using the same RB number as traditional methods.





## READ: Reinforcement-based Adversarial Learning for Text Classification with Limited Labeled Data
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.08035v1
- **Authors**: ['Rohit Sharma', 'Shanu Kumar', 'Avinash Kumar']
- **Abstrat**: Pre-trained transformer models such as BERT have shown massive gains across many text classification tasks. However, these models usually need enormous labeled data to achieve impressive performances. Obtaining labeled data is often expensive and time-consuming, whereas collecting unlabeled data using some heuristics is relatively much cheaper for any task. Therefore, this paper proposes a method that encapsulates reinforcement learning-based text generation and semi-supervised adversarial learning approaches in a novel way to improve the model's performance. Our method READ, Reinforcement-based Adversarial learning, utilizes an unlabeled dataset to generate diverse synthetic text through reinforcement learning, improving the model's generalization capability using adversarial learning. Our experimental results show that READ outperforms the existing state-of-art methods on multiple datasets.





## Cooperative Patrol Routing: Optimizing Urban Crime Surveillance through Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.08020v1
- **Authors**: ['Juan Palma-Borda', 'Eduardo Guzmán', 'María-Victoria Belmonte']
- **Abstrat**: The effective design of patrol strategies is a difficult and complex problem, especially in medium and large areas. The objective is to plan, in a coordinated manner, the optimal routes for a set of patrols in a given area, in order to achieve maximum coverage of the area, while also trying to minimize the number of patrols. In this paper, we propose a multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) model, based on a decentralized partially observable Markov decision process, to plan unpredictable patrol routes within an urban environment represented as an undirected graph. The model attempts to maximize a target function that characterizes the environment within a given time frame. Our model has been tested to optimize police patrol routes in three medium-sized districts of the city of Malaga. The aim was to maximize surveillance coverage of the most crime-prone areas, based on actual crime data in the city. To address this problem, several MARL algorithms have been studied, and among these the Value Decomposition Proximal Policy Optimization (VDPPO) algorithm exhibited the best performance. We also introduce a novel metric, the coverage index, for the evaluation of the coverage performance of the routes generated by our model. This metric is inspired by the predictive accuracy index (PAI), which is commonly used in criminology to detect hotspots. Using this metric, we have evaluated the model under various scenarios in which the number of agents (or patrols), their starting positions, and the level of information they can observe in the environment have been modified. Results show that the coordinated routes generated by our model achieve a coverage of more than $90\%$ of the $3\%$ of graph nodes with the highest crime incidence, and $65\%$ for $20\%$ of these nodes; $3\%$ and $20\%$ represent the coverage standards for police resource allocation.





## Decision Transformers for RIS-Assisted Systems with Diffusion Model-Based Channel Acquisition
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.08007v1
- **Authors**: ['Jie Zhang', 'Yiyang Ni', 'Jun Li', 'Guangji Chen', 'Zhe Wang', 'Long Shi', 'Shi Jin', 'Wen Chen', 'H. Vincent Poor']
- **Abstrat**: Reconfigurable intelligent surfaces (RISs) have been recognized as a revolutionary technology for future wireless networks. However, RIS-assisted communications have to continuously tune phase-shifts relying on accurate channel state information (CSI) that is generally difficult to obtain due to the large number of RIS channels. The joint design of CSI acquisition and subsection RIS phase-shifts remains a significant challenge in dynamic environments. In this paper, we propose a diffusion-enhanced decision Transformer (DEDT) framework consisting of a diffusion model (DM) designed for efficient CSI acquisition and a decision Transformer (DT) utilized for phase-shift optimizations. Specifically, we first propose a novel DM mechanism, i.e., conditional imputation based on denoising diffusion probabilistic model, for rapidly acquiring real-time full CSI by exploiting the spatial correlations inherent in wireless channels. Then, we optimize beamforming schemes based on the DT architecture, which pre-trains on historical environments to establish a robust policy model. Next, we incorporate a fine-tuning mechanism to ensure rapid beamforming adaptation to new environments, eliminating the retraining process that is imperative in conventional reinforcement learning (RL) methods. Simulation results demonstrate that DEDT can enhance efficiency and adaptability of RIS-aided communications with fluctuating channel conditions compared to state-of-the-art RL methods.





## Reward Compatibility: A Framework for Inverse RL
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07996v1
- **Authors**: ['Filippo Lazzati', 'Mirco Mutti', 'Alberto Metelli']
- **Abstrat**: We provide an original theoretical study of Inverse Reinforcement Learning (IRL) through the lens of reward compatibility, a novel framework to quantify the compatibility of a reward with the given expert's demonstrations. Intuitively, a reward is more compatible with the demonstrations the closer the performance of the expert's policy computed with that reward is to the optimal performance for that reward. This generalizes the notion of feasible reward set, the most common framework in the theoretical IRL literature, for which a reward is either compatible or not compatible. The grayscale introduced by the reward compatibility is the key to extend the realm of provably efficient IRL far beyond what is attainable with the feasible reward set: from tabular to large-scale MDPs. We analyze the IRL problem across various settings, including optimal and suboptimal expert's demonstrations and both online and offline data collection. For all of these dimensions, we provide a tractable algorithm and corresponding sample complexity analysis, as well as various insights on reward compatibility and how the framework can pave the way to yet more general problem settings.





## GenSafe: A Generalizable Safety Enhancer for Safe Reinforcement Learning Algorithms Based on Reduced Order Markov Decision Process Model
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.03912v2
- **Authors**: ['Zhehua Zhou', 'Xuan Xie', 'Jiayang Song', 'Zhan Shu', 'Lei Ma']
- **Abstrat**: Safe Reinforcement Learning (SRL) aims to realize a safe learning process for Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) algorithms by incorporating safety constraints. However, the efficacy of SRL approaches often relies on accurate function approximations, which are notably challenging to achieve in the early learning stages due to data insufficiency. To address this issue, we introduce in this work a novel Generalizable Safety enhancer (GenSafe) that is able to overcome the challenge of data insufficiency and enhance the performance of SRL approaches. Leveraging model order reduction techniques, we first propose an innovative method to construct a Reduced Order Markov Decision Process (ROMDP) as a low-dimensional approximator of the original safety constraints. Then, by solving the reformulated ROMDP-based constraints, GenSafe refines the actions of the agent to increase the possibility of constraint satisfaction. Essentially, GenSafe acts as an additional safety layer for SRL algorithms. We evaluate GenSafe on multiple SRL approaches and benchmark problems. The results demonstrate its capability to improve safety performance, especially in the early learning phases, while maintaining satisfactory task performance. Our proposed GenSafe not only offers a novel measure to augment existing SRL methods but also shows broad compatibility with various SRL algorithms, making it applicable to a wide range of systems and SRL problems.





## CHEQ-ing the Box: Safe Variable Impedance Learning for Robotic Polishing
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.07985v1
- **Authors**: ['Emma Cramer', 'Lukas Jäschke', 'Sebastian Trimpe']
- **Abstrat**: Robotic systems are increasingly employed for industrial automation, with contact-rich tasks like polishing requiring dexterity and compliant behaviour. These tasks are difficult to model, making classical control challenging. Deep reinforcement learning (RL) offers a promising solution by enabling the learning of models and control policies directly from data. However, its application to real-world problems is limited by data inefficiency and unsafe exploration. Adaptive hybrid RL methods blend classical control and RL adaptively, combining the strengths of both: structure from control and learning from RL. This has led to improvements in data efficiency and exploration safety. However, their potential for hardware applications remains underexplored, with no evaluations on physical systems to date. Such evaluations are critical to fully assess the practicality and effectiveness of these methods in real-world settings. This work presents an experimental demonstration of the hybrid RL algorithm CHEQ for robotic polishing with variable impedance, a task requiring precise force and velocity tracking. In simulation, we show that variable impedance enhances polishing performance. We compare standalone RL with adaptive hybrid RL, demonstrating that CHEQ achieves effective learning while adhering to safety constraints. On hardware, CHEQ achieves effective polishing behaviour, requiring only eight hours of training and incurring just five failures. These results highlight the potential of adaptive hybrid RL for real-world, contact-rich tasks trained directly on hardware.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning