# reinforcement learning
## Beyond 'Aha!': Toward Systematic Meta-Abilities Alignment in Large Reasoning Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.10554v1
- **Authors**: ['Zhiyuan Hu', 'Yibo Wang', 'Hanze Dong', 'Yuhui Xu', 'Amrita Saha', 'Caiming Xiong', 'Bryan Hooi', 'Junnan Li']
- **Abstrat**: Large reasoning models (LRMs) already possess a latent capacity for long chain-of-thought reasoning. Prior work has shown that outcome-based reinforcement learning (RL) can incidentally elicit advanced reasoning behaviors such as self-correction, backtracking, and verification phenomena often referred to as the model's "aha moment". However, the timing and consistency of these emergent behaviors remain unpredictable and uncontrollable, limiting the scalability and reliability of LRMs' reasoning capabilities. To address these limitations, we move beyond reliance on prompts and coincidental "aha moments". Instead, we explicitly align models with three meta-abilities: deduction, induction, and abduction, using automatically generated, self-verifiable tasks. Our three stage-pipeline individual alignment, parameter-space merging, and domain-specific reinforcement learning, boosting performance by over 10\% relative to instruction-tuned baselines. Furthermore, domain-specific RL from the aligned checkpoint yields an additional 2\% average gain in the performance ceiling across math, coding, and science benchmarks, demonstrating that explicit meta-ability alignment offers a scalable and dependable foundation for reasoning. Code is available at: https://github.com/zhiyuanhubj/Meta-Ability-Alignment





## Knowledge capture, adaptation and composition (KCAC): A framework for cross-task curriculum learning in robotic manipulation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.10522v1
- **Authors**: ['Xinrui Wang', 'Yan Jin']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement learning (RL) has demonstrated remarkable potential in robotic manipulation but faces challenges in sample inefficiency and lack of interpretability, limiting its applicability in real world scenarios. Enabling the agent to gain a deeper understanding and adapt more efficiently to diverse working scenarios is crucial, and strategic knowledge utilization is a key factor in this process. This paper proposes a Knowledge Capture, Adaptation, and Composition (KCAC) framework to systematically integrate knowledge transfer into RL through cross-task curriculum learning. KCAC is evaluated using a two block stacking task in the CausalWorld benchmark, a complex robotic manipulation environment. To our knowledge, existing RL approaches fail to solve this task effectively, reflecting deficiencies in knowledge capture. In this work, we redesign the benchmark reward function by removing rigid constraints and strict ordering, allowing the agent to maximize total rewards concurrently and enabling flexible task completion. Furthermore, we define two self-designed sub-tasks and implement a structured cross-task curriculum to facilitate efficient learning. As a result, our KCAC approach achieves a 40 percent reduction in training time while improving task success rates by 10 percent compared to traditional RL methods. Through extensive evaluation, we identify key curriculum design parameters subtask selection, transition timing, and learning rate that optimize learning efficiency and provide conceptual guidance for curriculum based RL frameworks. This work offers valuable insights into curriculum design in RL and robotic learning.





## Fixing Incomplete Value Function Decomposition for Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.10484v1
- **Authors**: ['Andrea Baisero', 'Rupali Bhati', 'Shuo Liu', 'Aathira Pillai', 'Christopher Amato']
- **Abstrat**: Value function decomposition methods for cooperative multi-agent reinforcement learning compose joint values from individual per-agent utilities, and train them using a joint objective. To ensure that the action selection process between individual utilities and joint values remains consistent, it is imperative for the composition to satisfy the individual-global max (IGM) property. Although satisfying IGM itself is straightforward, most existing methods (e.g., VDN, QMIX) have limited representation capabilities and are unable to represent the full class of IGM values, and the one exception that has no such limitation (QPLEX) is unnecessarily complex. In this work, we present a simple formulation of the full class of IGM values that naturally leads to the derivation of QFIX, a novel family of value function decomposition models that expand the representation capabilities of prior models by means of a thin "fixing" layer. We derive multiple variants of QFIX, and implement three variants in two well-known multi-agent frameworks. We perform an empirical evaluation on multiple SMACv2 and Overcooked environments, which confirms that QFIX (i) succeeds in enhancing the performance of prior methods, (ii) learns more stably and performs better than its main competitor QPLEX, and (iii) achieves this while employing the simplest and smallest mixing models.





## Fine-tuning Diffusion Policies with Backpropagation Through Diffusion Timesteps
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.10482v1
- **Authors**: ['Ningyuan Yang', 'Jiaxuan Gao', 'Feng Gao', 'Yi Wu', 'Chao Yu']
- **Abstrat**: Diffusion policies, widely adopted in decision-making scenarios such as robotics, gaming and autonomous driving, are capable of learning diverse skills from demonstration data due to their high representation power. However, the sub-optimal and limited coverage of demonstration data could lead to diffusion policies that generate sub-optimal trajectories and even catastrophic failures. While reinforcement learning (RL)-based fine-tuning has emerged as a promising solution to address these limitations, existing approaches struggle to effectively adapt Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) to diffusion models. This challenge stems from the computational intractability of action likelihood estimation during the denoising process, which leads to complicated optimization objectives. In our experiments starting from randomly initialized policies, we find that online tuning of Diffusion Policies demonstrates much lower sample efficiency compared to directly applying PPO on MLP policies (MLP+PPO). To address these challenges, we introduce NCDPO, a novel framework that reformulates Diffusion Policy as a noise-conditioned deterministic policy. By treating each denoising step as a differentiable transformation conditioned on pre-sampled noise, NCDPO enables tractable likelihood evaluation and gradient backpropagation through all diffusion timesteps. Our experiments demonstrate that NCDPO achieves sample efficiency comparable to MLP+PPO when training from scratch, outperforming existing methods in both sample efficiency and final performance across diverse benchmarks, including continuous robot control and multi-agent game scenarios. Furthermore, our experimental results show that our method is robust to the number denoising timesteps in the Diffusion Policy.





## Reinforcing the Diffusion Chain of Lateral Thought with Diffusion Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.10446v1
- **Authors**: ['Zemin Huang', 'Zhiyang Chen', 'Zijun Wang', 'Tiancheng Li', 'Guo-Jun Qi']
- **Abstrat**: We introduce the \emph{Diffusion Chain of Lateral Thought (DCoLT)}, a reasoning framework for diffusion language models. DCoLT treats each intermediate step in the reverse diffusion process as a latent "thinking" action and optimizes the entire reasoning trajectory to maximize the reward on the correctness of the final answer with outcome-based Reinforcement Learning (RL). Unlike traditional Chain-of-Thought (CoT) methods that follow a causal, linear thinking process, DCoLT allows bidirectional, non-linear reasoning with no strict rule on grammatical correctness amid its intermediate steps of thought. We implement DCoLT on two representative Diffusion Language Models (DLMs). First, we choose SEDD as a representative continuous-time discrete diffusion model, where its concrete score derives a probabilistic policy to maximize the RL reward over the entire sequence of intermediate diffusion steps. We further consider the discrete-time masked diffusion language model --LLaDA, and find that the order to predict and unmask tokens plays an essential role to optimize its RL action resulting from the ranking-based Unmasking Policy Module (UPM) defined by the Plackett-Luce model. Experiments on both math and code generation tasks show that using only public data and 16 H800 GPUs, DCoLT-reinforced DLMs outperform other DLMs trained by SFT or RL or even both. Notably, DCoLT-reinforced LLaDA boosts its reasoning accuracy by +9.8%, +5.7%, +11.4%, +19.5% on GSM8K, MATH, MBPP, and HumanEval.





## IN-RIL: Interleaved Reinforcement and Imitation Learning for Policy Fine-Tuning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.10442v1
- **Authors**: ['Dechen Gao', 'Hang Wang', 'Hanchu Zhou', 'Nejib Ammar', 'Shatadal Mishra', 'Ahmadreza Moradipari', 'Iman Soltani', 'Junshan Zhang']
- **Abstrat**: Imitation learning (IL) and reinforcement learning (RL) each offer distinct advantages for robotics policy learning: IL provides stable learning from demonstrations, and RL promotes generalization through exploration. While existing robot learning approaches using IL-based pre-training followed by RL-based fine-tuning are promising, this two-step learning paradigm often suffers from instability and poor sample efficiency during the RL fine-tuning phase. In this work, we introduce IN-RIL, INterleaved Reinforcement learning and Imitation Learning, for policy fine-tuning, which periodically injects IL updates after multiple RL updates and hence can benefit from the stability of IL and the guidance of expert data for more efficient exploration throughout the entire fine-tuning process. Since IL and RL involve different optimization objectives, we develop gradient separation mechanisms to prevent destructive interference during \ABBR fine-tuning, by separating possibly conflicting gradient updates in orthogonal subspaces. Furthermore, we conduct rigorous analysis, and our findings shed light on why interleaving IL with RL stabilizes learning and improves sample-efficiency. Extensive experiments on 14 robot manipulation and locomotion tasks across 3 benchmarks, including FurnitureBench, OpenAI Gym, and Robomimic, demonstrate that \ABBR can significantly improve sample efficiency and mitigate performance collapse during online finetuning in both long- and short-horizon tasks with either sparse or dense rewards. IN-RIL, as a general plug-in compatible with various state-of-the-art RL algorithms, can significantly improve RL fine-tuning, e.g., from 12\% to 88\% with 6.3x improvement in the success rate on Robomimic Transport. Project page: https://github.com/ucd-dare/IN-RIL.





## Learning to Think: Information-Theoretic Reinforcement Fine-Tuning for LLMs
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.10425v1
- **Authors**: ['Jingyao Wang', 'Wenwen Qiang', 'Zeen Song', 'Changwen Zheng', 'Hui Xiong']
- **Abstrat**: Large language models (LLMs) excel at complex tasks thanks to advances in reasoning abilities. However, existing methods overlook the trade-off between reasoning effectiveness and computational efficiency, often encouraging unnecessarily long reasoning chains and wasting tokens. To address this, we propose Learning to Think (L2T), an information-theoretic reinforcement fine-tuning framework for LLMs to make the models achieve optimal reasoning with fewer tokens. Specifically, L2T treats each query-response interaction as a hierarchical session of multiple episodes and proposes a universal dense process reward, i.e., quantifies the episode-wise information gain in parameters, requiring no extra annotations or task-specific evaluators. We propose a method to quickly estimate this reward based on PAC-Bayes bounds and the Fisher information matrix. Theoretical analyses show that it significantly reduces computational complexity with high estimation accuracy. By immediately rewarding each episode's contribution and penalizing excessive updates, L2T optimizes the model via reinforcement learning to maximize the use of each episode and achieve effective updates. Empirical results on various reasoning benchmarks and base models demonstrate the advantage of L2T across different tasks, boosting both reasoning effectiveness and efficiency.





## Decomposed Inductive Procedure Learning: Learning Academic Tasks with Human-Like Data Efficiency
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.10422v1
- **Authors**: ['Daniel Weitekamp', 'Christopher MacLellan', 'Erik Harpstead', 'Kenneth Koedinger']
- **Abstrat**: Human learning relies on specialization -- distinct cognitive mechanisms working together to enable rapid learning. In contrast, most modern neural networks rely on a single mechanism: gradient descent over an objective function. This raises the question: might human learners' relatively rapid learning from just tens of examples instead of tens of thousands in data-driven deep learning arise from our ability to use multiple specialized mechanisms of learning in combination? We investigate this question through an ablation analysis of inductive human learning simulations in online tutoring environments. Comparing reinforcement learning to a more data-efficient 3-mechanism symbolic rule induction approach, we find that decomposing learning into multiple distinct mechanisms significantly improves data efficiency, bringing it in line with human learning. Furthermore, we show that this decomposition has a greater impact on efficiency than the distinction between symbolic and subsymbolic learning alone. Efforts to align data-driven machine learning with human learning often overlook the stark difference in learning efficiency. Our findings suggest that integrating multiple specialized learning mechanisms may be key to bridging this gap.





## Double Successive Over-Relaxation Q-Learning with an Extension to Deep Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.06356v2
- **Authors**: ['Shreyas S R']
- **Abstrat**: Q-learning is a widely used algorithm in reinforcement learning (RL), but its convergence can be slow, especially when the discount factor is close to one. Successive Over-Relaxation (SOR) Q-learning, which introduces a relaxation factor to speed up convergence, addresses this issue but has two major limitations: In the tabular setting, the relaxation parameter depends on transition probability, making it not entirely model-free, and it suffers from overestimation bias. To overcome these limitations, we propose a sample-based, model-free double SOR Q-learning algorithm. Theoretically and empirically, this algorithm is shown to be less biased than SOR Q-learning. Further, in the tabular setting, the convergence analysis under boundedness assumptions on iterates is discussed. The proposed algorithm is extended to large-scale problems using deep RL. Finally, the tabular version of the proposed algorithm is compared using roulette and grid world environments, while the deep RL version is tested on a maximization bias example and OpenAI Gym environments.





## Optimizing Power Grid Topologies with Reinforcement Learning: A Survey of Methods and Challenges
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08210v2
- **Authors**: ['Erica van der Sar', 'Alessandro Zocca', 'Sandjai Bhulai']
- **Abstrat**: Power grid operation is becoming increasingly complex due to the rising integration of renewable energy sources and the need for more adaptive control strategies. Reinforcement Learning (RL) has emerged as a promising approach to power network control (PNC), offering the potential to enhance decision-making in dynamic and uncertain environments. The Learning To Run a Power Network (L2RPN) competitions have played a key role in accelerating research by providing standardized benchmarks and problem formulations, leading to rapid advancements in RL-based methods. This survey provides a comprehensive and structured overview of RL applications for power grid topology optimization, categorizing existing techniques, highlighting key design choices, and identifying gaps in current research. Additionally, we present a comparative numerical study evaluating the impact of commonly applied RL-based methods, offering insights into their practical effectiveness. By consolidating existing research and outlining open challenges, this survey aims to provide a foundation for future advancements in RL-driven power grid optimization.





## Efficient Adaptation of Reinforcement Learning Agents to Sudden Environmental Change
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.10330v1
- **Authors**: ['Jonathan Clifford Balloch']
- **Abstrat**: Real-world autonomous decision-making systems, from robots to recommendation engines, must operate in environments that change over time. While deep reinforcement learning (RL) has shown an impressive ability to learn optimal policies in stationary environments, most methods are data intensive and assume a world that does not change between training and test time. As a result, conventional RL methods struggle to adapt when conditions change. This poses a fundamental challenge: how can RL agents efficiently adapt their behavior when encountering novel environmental changes during deployment without catastrophically forgetting useful prior knowledge? This dissertation demonstrates that efficient online adaptation requires two key capabilities: (1) prioritized exploration and sampling strategies that help identify and learn from relevant experiences, and (2) selective preservation of prior knowledge through structured representations that can be updated without disruption to reusable components.





## 100 Days After DeepSeek-R1: A Survey on Replication Studies and More Directions for Reasoning Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.00551v3
- **Authors**: ['Chong Zhang', 'Yue Deng', 'Xiang Lin', 'Bin Wang', 'Dianwen Ng', 'Hai Ye', 'Xingxuan Li', 'Yao Xiao', 'Zhanfeng Mo', 'Qi Zhang', 'Lidong Bing']
- **Abstrat**: The recent development of reasoning language models (RLMs) represents a novel evolution in large language models. In particular, the recent release of DeepSeek-R1 has generated widespread social impact and sparked enthusiasm in the research community for exploring the explicit reasoning paradigm of language models. However, the implementation details of the released models have not been fully open-sourced by DeepSeek, including DeepSeek-R1-Zero, DeepSeek-R1, and the distilled small models. As a result, many replication studies have emerged aiming to reproduce the strong performance achieved by DeepSeek-R1, reaching comparable performance through similar training procedures and fully open-source data resources. These works have investigated feasible strategies for supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and reinforcement learning from verifiable rewards (RLVR), focusing on data preparation and method design, yielding various valuable insights. In this report, we provide a summary of recent replication studies to inspire future research. We primarily focus on SFT and RLVR as two main directions, introducing the details for data construction, method design and training procedure of current replication studies. Moreover, we conclude key findings from the implementation details and experimental results reported by these studies, anticipating to inspire future research. We also discuss additional techniques of enhancing RLMs, highlighting the potential of expanding the application scope of these models, and discussing the challenges in development. By this survey, we aim to help researchers and developers of RLMs stay updated with the latest advancements, and seek to inspire new ideas to further enhance RLMs.





## J1: Incentivizing Thinking in LLM-as-a-Judge via Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.10320v1
- **Authors**: ['Chenxi Whitehouse', 'Tianlu Wang', 'Ping Yu', 'Xian Li', 'Jason Weston', 'Ilia Kulikov', 'Swarnadeep Saha']
- **Abstrat**: The progress of AI is bottlenecked by the quality of evaluation, and powerful LLM-as-a-Judge models have proved to be a core solution. Improved judgment ability is enabled by stronger chain-of-thought reasoning, motivating the need to find the best recipes for training such models to think. In this work we introduce J1, a reinforcement learning approach to training such models. Our method converts both verifiable and non-verifiable prompts to judgment tasks with verifiable rewards that incentivize thinking and mitigate judgment bias. In particular, our approach outperforms all other existing 8B or 70B models when trained at those sizes, including models distilled from DeepSeek-R1. J1 also outperforms o1-mini, and even R1 on some benchmarks, despite training a smaller model. We provide analysis and ablations comparing Pairwise-J1 vs Pointwise-J1 models, offline vs online training recipes, reward strategies, seed prompts, and variations in thought length and content. We find that our models make better judgments by learning to outline evaluation criteria, comparing against self-generated reference answers, and re-evaluating the correctness of model responses.





## Optimizing Electric Bus Charging Scheduling with Uncertainties Using Hierarchical Deep Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.10296v1
- **Authors**: ['Jiaju Qi', 'Lei Lei', 'Thorsteinn Jonsson', 'Dusit Niyato']
- **Abstrat**: The growing adoption of Electric Buses (EBs) represents a significant step toward sustainable development. By utilizing Internet of Things (IoT) systems, charging stations can autonomously determine charging schedules based on real-time data. However, optimizing EB charging schedules remains a critical challenge due to uncertainties in travel time, energy consumption, and fluctuating electricity prices. Moreover, to address real-world complexities, charging policies must make decisions efficiently across multiple time scales and remain scalable for large EB fleets. In this paper, we propose a Hierarchical Deep Reinforcement Learning (HDRL) approach that reformulates the original Markov Decision Process (MDP) into two augmented MDPs. To solve these MDPs and enable multi-timescale decision-making, we introduce a novel HDRL algorithm, namely Double Actor-Critic Multi-Agent Proximal Policy Optimization Enhancement (DAC-MAPPO-E). Scalability challenges of the Double Actor-Critic (DAC) algorithm for large-scale EB fleets are addressed through enhancements at both decision levels. At the high level, we redesign the decentralized actor network and integrate an attention mechanism to extract relevant global state information for each EB, decreasing the size of neural networks. At the low level, the Multi-Agent Proximal Policy Optimization (MAPPO) algorithm is incorporated into the DAC framework, enabling decentralized and coordinated charging power decisions, reducing computational complexity and enhancing convergence speed. Extensive experiments with real-world data demonstrate the superior performance and scalability of DAC-MAPPO-E in optimizing EB fleet charging schedules.





## Electric Bus Charging Schedules Relying on Real Data-Driven Targets Based on Hierarchical Deep Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.10262v1
- **Authors**: ['Jiaju Qi', 'Lei Lei', 'Thorsteinn Jonsson', 'Lajos Hanzo']
- **Abstrat**: The charging scheduling problem of Electric Buses (EBs) is investigated based on Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL). A Markov Decision Process (MDP) is conceived, where the time horizon includes multiple charging and operating periods in a day, while each period is further divided into multiple time steps. To overcome the challenge of long-range multi-phase planning with sparse reward, we conceive Hierarchical DRL (HDRL) for decoupling the original MDP into a high-level Semi-MDP (SMDP) and multiple low-level MDPs. The Hierarchical Double Deep Q-Network (HDDQN)-Hindsight Experience Replay (HER) algorithm is proposed for simultaneously solving the decision problems arising at different temporal resolutions. As a result, the high-level agent learns an effective policy for prescribing the charging targets for every charging period, while the low-level agent learns an optimal policy for setting the charging power of every time step within a single charging period, with the aim of minimizing the charging costs while meeting the charging target. It is proved that the flat policy constructed by superimposing the optimal high-level policy and the optimal low-level policy performs as well as the optimal policy of the original MDP. Since jointly learning both levels of policies is challenging due to the non-stationarity of the high-level agent and the sampling inefficiency of the low-level agent, we divide the joint learning process into two phases and exploit our new HER algorithm to manipulate the experience replay buffers for both levels of agents. Numerical experiments are performed with the aid of real-world data to evaluate the performance of the proposed algorithm.





## Representation Convergence: Mutual Distillation is Secretly a Form of Regularization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.02481v4
- **Authors**: ['Zhengpeng Xie', 'Jiahang Cao', 'Qiang Zhang', 'Jianxiong Zhang', 'Changwei Wang', 'Renjing Xu']
- **Abstrat**: In this paper, we argue that mutual distillation between reinforcement learning policies serves as an implicit regularization, preventing them from overfitting to irrelevant features. We highlight two key contributions: (a) Theoretically, for the first time, we prove that enhancing the policy robustness to irrelevant features leads to improved generalization performance. (b) Empirically, we demonstrate that mutual distillation between policies contributes to such robustness, enabling the spontaneous emergence of invariant representations over pixel inputs. Overall, our findings challenge the conventional view of distillation as merely a means of knowledge transfer, offering a novel perspective on the generalization in deep reinforcement learning.





## RAIDEN-R1: Improving Role-awareness of LLMs via GRPO with Verifiable Reward
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.10218v1
- **Authors**: ['Zongsheng Wang', 'Kaili Sun', 'Bowen Wu', 'Qun Yu', 'Ying Li', 'Baoxun Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Role-playing conversational agents (RPCAs) face persistent challenges in maintaining role consistency. To address this, we propose RAIDEN-R1, a novel reinforcement learning framework that integrates Verifiable Role-Awareness Reward (VRAR). The method introduces both singular and multi-term mining strategies to generate quantifiable rewards by assessing role-specific keys. Additionally, we construct a high-quality, role-aware Chain-of-Thought dataset through multi-LLM collaboration, and implement experiments to enhance reasoning coherence. Experiments on the RAIDEN benchmark demonstrate RAIDEN-R1's superiority: our 14B-GRPO model achieves 88.04% and 88.65% accuracy on Script-Based Knowledge and Conversation Memory metrics, respectively, outperforming baseline models while maintaining robustness. Case analyses further reveal the model's enhanced ability to resolve conflicting contextual cues and sustain first-person narrative consistency. This work bridges the non-quantifiability gap in RPCA training and provides insights into role-aware reasoning patterns, advancing the development of RPCAs.





## Learning Progress Driven Multi-Agent Curriculum
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2205.10016v3
- **Authors**: ['Wenshuai Zhao', 'Zhiyuan Li', 'Joni Pajarinen']
- **Abstrat**: The number of agents can be an effective curriculum variable for controlling the difficulty of multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) tasks. Existing work typically uses manually defined curricula such as linear schemes. We identify two potential flaws while applying existing reward-based automatic curriculum learning methods in MARL: (1) The expected episode return used to measure task difficulty has high variance; (2) Credit assignment difficulty can be exacerbated in tasks where increasing the number of agents yields higher returns which is common in many MARL tasks. To address these issues, we propose to control the curriculum by using a TD-error based *learning progress* measure and by letting the curriculum proceed from an initial context distribution to the final task specific one. Since our approach maintains a distribution over the number of agents and measures learning progress rather than absolute performance, which often increases with the number of agents, we alleviate problem (2). Moreover, the learning progress measure naturally alleviates problem (1) by aggregating returns. In three challenging sparse-reward MARL benchmarks, our approach outperforms state-of-the-art baselines.





## Mining Hidden Thoughts from Texts: Evaluating Continual Pretraining with Synthetic Data for LLM Reasoning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.10182v1
- **Authors**: ['Yoichi Ishibashi', 'Taro Yano', 'Masafumi Oyamada']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated significant improvements in reasoning capabilities through supervised fine-tuning and reinforcement learning. However, when training reasoning models, these approaches are primarily applicable to specific domains such as mathematics and programming, which imposes fundamental constraints on the breadth and scalability of training data. In contrast, continual pretraining (CPT) offers the advantage of not requiring task-specific signals. Nevertheless, how to effectively synthesize training data for reasoning and how such data affect a wide range of domains remain largely unexplored. This study provides a detailed evaluation of Reasoning CPT, a form of CPT that uses synthetic data to reconstruct the hidden thought processes underlying texts, based on the premise that texts are the result of the author's thinking process. Specifically, we apply Reasoning CPT to Gemma2-9B using synthetic data with hidden thoughts derived from STEM and Law corpora, and compare it to standard CPT on the MMLU benchmark. Our analysis reveals that Reasoning CPT consistently improves performance across all evaluated domains. Notably, reasoning skills acquired in one domain transfer effectively to others; the performance gap with conventional methods widens as problem difficulty increases, with gains of up to 8 points on the most challenging problems. Furthermore, models trained with hidden thoughts learn to adjust the depth of their reasoning according to problem difficulty.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## AutoCam: Hierarchical Path Planning for an Autonomous Auxiliary Camera in Surgical Robotics
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.10398v1
- **Authors**: ['Alexandre Banks', 'Randy Moore', 'Sayem Nazmuz Zaman', 'Alaa Eldin Abdelaal', 'Septimiu E. Salcudean']
- **Abstrat**: Incorporating an autonomous auxiliary camera into robot-assisted minimally invasive surgery (RAMIS) enhances spatial awareness and eliminates manual viewpoint control. Existing path planning methods for auxiliary cameras track two-dimensional surgical features but do not simultaneously account for camera orientation, workspace constraints, and robot joint limits. This study presents AutoCam: an automatic auxiliary camera placement method to improve visualization in RAMIS. Implemented on the da Vinci Research Kit, the system uses a priority-based, workspace-constrained control algorithm that combines heuristic geometric placement with nonlinear optimization to ensure robust camera tracking. A user study (N=6) demonstrated that the system maintained 99.84% visibility of a salient feature and achieved a pose error of 4.36 $\pm$ 2.11 degrees and 1.95 $\pm$ 5.66 mm. The controller was computationally efficient, with a loop time of 6.8 $\pm$ 12.8 ms. An additional pilot study (N=6), where novices completed a Fundamentals of Laparoscopic Surgery training task, suggests that users can teleoperate just as effectively from AutoCam's viewpoint as from the endoscope's while still benefiting from AutoCam's improved visual coverage of the scene. These results indicate that an auxiliary camera can be autonomously controlled using the da Vinci patient-side manipulators to track a salient feature, laying the groundwork for new multi-camera visualization methods in RAMIS.





## Multi-Agent Path Finding For Large Agents Is Intractable
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.10387v1
- **Authors**: ['Artem Agafonov', 'Konstantin Yakovlev']
- **Abstrat**: The multi-agent path finding (MAPF) problem asks to find a set of paths on a graph such that when synchronously following these paths the agents never encounter a conflict. In the most widespread MAPF formulation, the so-called Classical MAPF, the agents sizes are neglected and two types of conflicts are considered: occupying the same vertex or using the same edge at the same time step. Meanwhile in numerous practical applications, e.g. in robotics, taking into account the agents' sizes is vital to ensure that the MAPF solutions can be safely executed. Introducing large agents yields an additional type of conflict arising when one agent follows an edge and its body overlaps with the body of another agent that is actually not using this same edge (e.g. staying still at some distinct vertex of the graph). Until now it was not clear how harder the problem gets when such conflicts are to be considered while planning. Specifically, it was known that Classical MAPF problem on an undirected graph can be solved in polynomial time, however no complete polynomial-time algorithm was presented to solve MAPF with large agents. In this paper we, for the first time, establish that the latter problem is NP-hard and, thus, if P!=NP no polynomial algorithm for it can, unfortunately, be presented. Our proof is based on the prevalent in the field technique of reducing the seminal 3SAT problem (which is known to be an NP-complete problem) to the problem at hand. In particular, for an arbitrary 3SAT formula we procedurally construct a dedicated graph with specific start and goal vertices and show that the given 3SAT formula is satisfiable iff the corresponding path finding instance has a solution.





## LLM A*: Human in the Loop Large Language Models Enabled A* Search for Robotics
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01797v3
- **Authors**: ['Hengjia Xiao', 'Peng Wang', 'Mingzhe Yu', 'Mattia Robbiani']
- **Abstrat**: This research focuses on how Large Language Models (LLMs) can help with (path) planning for mobile embodied agents such as robots, in a human-in-the-loop and interactive manner. A novel framework named LLM A*, aims to leverage the commonsense of LLMs, and the utility-optimal A* is proposed to facilitate few-shot near-optimal path planning. Prompts are used for two main purposes: 1) to provide LLMs with essential information like environments, costs, heuristics, etc.; 2) to communicate human feedback on intermediate planning results to LLMs. This approach takes human feedback on board and renders the entire planning process transparent (akin to a `white box') to humans. Moreover, it facilitates code-free path planning, thereby fostering the accessibility and inclusiveness of artificial intelligence techniques to communities less proficient in coding. Comparative analysis against A* and RL demonstrates that LLM A* exhibits greater efficiency in terms of search space and achieves paths comparable to A* while outperforming RL. The interactive nature of LLM A* also makes it a promising tool for deployment in collaborative human-robot tasks. Codes and Supplemental Materials can be found at GitHub: https://github.com/speedhawk/LLM-A-.





## SafePath: Conformal Prediction for Safe LLM-Based Autonomous Navigation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.09427v2
- **Authors**: ['Achref Doula', 'Max Mühlhäuser', 'Alejandro Sanchez Guinea']
- **Abstrat**: Large Language Models (LLMs) show growing promise in autonomous driving by reasoning over complex traffic scenarios to generate path plans. However, their tendencies toward overconfidence, and hallucinations raise critical safety concerns. We introduce SafePath, a modular framework that augments LLM-based path planning with formal safety guarantees using conformal prediction. SafePath operates in three stages. In the first stage, we use an LLM that generates a set of diverse candidate paths, exploring possible trajectories based on agent behaviors and environmental cues. In the second stage, SafePath filters out high-risk trajectories while guaranteeing that at least one safe option is included with a user-defined probability, through a multiple-choice question-answering formulation that integrates conformal prediction. In the final stage, our approach selects the path with the lowest expected collision risk when uncertainty is low or delegates control to a human when uncertainty is high. We theoretically prove that SafePath guarantees a safe trajectory with a user-defined probability, and we show how its human delegation rate can be tuned to balance autonomy and safety. Extensive experiments on nuScenes and Highway-env show that SafePath reduces planning uncertainty by 77\% and collision rates by up to 70\%, demonstrating effectiveness in making LLM-driven path planning more safer.




