# reinforcement learning
## An Open-source Sim2Real Approach for Sensor-independent Robot Navigation in a Grid
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.03494v2
- **Authors**: ['Murad Mehrab Abrar', 'Souryadeep Mondal', 'Michelle Hickner']
- **Abstrat**: This paper presents a Sim2Real (Simulation to Reality) approach to bridge the gap between a trained agent in a simulated environment and its real-world implementation in navigating a robot in a similar setting. Specifically, we focus on navigating a quadruped robot in a real-world grid-like environment inspired by the Gymnasium Frozen Lake -- a highly user-friendly and free Application Programming Interface (API) to develop and test Reinforcement Learning (RL) algorithms. We detail the development of a pipeline to transfer motion policies learned in the Frozen Lake simulation to a physical quadruped robot, thus enabling autonomous navigation and obstacle avoidance in a grid without relying on expensive localization and mapping sensors. The work involves training an RL agent in the Frozen Lake environment and utilizing the resulting Q-table to control a 12 Degrees-of-Freedom (DOF) quadruped robot. In addition to detailing the RL implementation, inverse kinematics-based quadruped gaits, and the transfer policy pipeline, we open-source the project on GitHub and include a demonstration video of our Sim2Real transfer approach. This work provides an accessible, straightforward, and low-cost framework for researchers, students, and hobbyists to explore and implement RL-based robot navigation in real-world grid environments.





## Turn-based Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning Model Checking
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03187v1
- **Authors**: ['Dennis Gross']
- **Abstrat**: In this paper, we propose a novel approach for verifying the compliance of turn-based multi-agent reinforcement learning (TMARL) agents with complex requirements in stochastic multiplayer games. Our method overcomes the limitations of existing verification approaches, which are inadequate for dealing with TMARL agents and not scalable to large games with multiple agents. Our approach relies on tight integration of TMARL and a verification technique referred to as model checking. We demonstrate the effectiveness and scalability of our technique through experiments in different types of environments. Our experiments show that our method is suited to verify TMARL agents and scales better than naive monolithic model checking.





## Co-Activation Graph Analysis of Safety-Verified and Explainable Deep Reinforcement Learning Policies
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.03142v1
- **Authors**: ['Dennis Gross', 'Helge Spieker']
- **Abstrat**: Deep reinforcement learning (RL) policies can demonstrate unsafe behaviors and are challenging to interpret. To address these challenges, we combine RL policy model checking--a technique for determining whether RL policies exhibit unsafe behaviors--with co-activation graph analysis--a method that maps neural network inner workings by analyzing neuron activation patterns--to gain insight into the safe RL policy's sequential decision-making. This combination lets us interpret the RL policy's inner workings for safe decision-making. We demonstrate its applicability in various experiments.





## Reinforcement Learning from Automatic Feedback for High-Quality Unit Test Generation
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2310.02368v2
- **Authors**: ['Benjamin Steenhoek', 'Michele Tufano', 'Neel Sundaresan', 'Alexey Svyatkovskiy']
- **Abstrat**: Software testing is a crucial aspect of software development, and the creation of high-quality tests that adhere to best practices is essential for effective maintenance. Recently, Large Language Models (LLMs) have gained popularity for code generation, including the automated creation of test cases. However, these LLMs are often trained on vast amounts of publicly available code, which may include test cases that do not adhere to best practices and may even contain test smells (anti-patterns). To address this issue, we propose a novel technique called Reinforcement Learning from Static Quality Metrics (RLSQM). To begin, we analyze the anti-patterns generated by the LLM and show that LLMs can generate undesirable test smells. Thus, we train specific reward models for each static quality metric, then utilize Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) to train models for optimizing a single quality metric at a time. Furthermore, we amalgamate these rewards into a unified reward model aimed at capturing different best practices and quality aspects of tests. By comparing RL-trained models with those trained using supervised learning, we provide insights into how reliably utilize RL to improve test generation quality and into the effects of various training strategies. Our experimental results demonstrate that the RL-optimized model consistently generated high-quality test cases compared to the base LLM, improving the model by up to 21%, and successfully generates nearly 100% syntactically correct code. RLSQM also outperformed GPT-4 on four out of seven metrics. This represents a significant step towards enhancing the overall efficiency and reliability of software testing through Reinforcement Learning and static quality metrics. Our data are available at https://figshare.com/s/ded476c8d4c221222849.





## RLCP: A Reinforcement Learning-based Copyright Protection Method for Text-to-Image Diffusion Model
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16634v3
- **Authors**: ['Zhuan Shi', 'Jing Yan', 'Xiaoli Tang', 'Lingjuan Lyu', 'Boi Faltings']
- **Abstrat**: The increasing sophistication of text-to-image generative models has led to complex challenges in defining and enforcing copyright infringement criteria and protection. Existing methods, such as watermarking and dataset deduplication, fail to provide comprehensive solutions due to the lack of standardized metrics and the inherent complexity of addressing copyright infringement in diffusion models. To deal with these challenges, we propose a Reinforcement Learning-based Copyright Protection(RLCP) method for Text-to-Image Diffusion Model, which minimizes the generation of copyright-infringing content while maintaining the quality of the model-generated dataset. Our approach begins with the introduction of a novel copyright metric grounded in copyright law and court precedents on infringement. We then utilize the Denoising Diffusion Policy Optimization (DDPO) framework to guide the model through a multi-step decision-making process, optimizing it using a reward function that incorporates our proposed copyright metric. Additionally, we employ KL divergence as a regularization term to mitigate some failure modes and stabilize RL fine-tuning. Experiments conducted on 3 mixed datasets of copyright and non-copyright images demonstrate that our approach significantly reduces copyright infringement risk while maintaining image quality.





## RA-PbRL: Provably Efficient Risk-Aware Preference-Based Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.23569v3
- **Authors**: ['Yujie Zhao', 'Jose Efraim Aguilar Escamill', 'Weyl Lu', 'Huazheng Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) has recently surged in popularity, particularly for aligning large language models and other AI systems with human intentions. At its core, RLHF can be viewed as a specialized instance of Preference-based Reinforcement Learning (PbRL), where the preferences specifically originate from human judgments rather than arbitrary evaluators. Despite this connection, most existing approaches in both RLHF and PbRL primarily focus on optimizing a mean reward objective, neglecting scenarios that necessitate risk-awareness, such as AI safety, healthcare, and autonomous driving. These scenarios often operate under a one-episode-reward setting, which makes conventional risk-sensitive objectives inapplicable. To address this, we explore and prove the applicability of two risk-aware objectives to PbRL : nested and static quantile risk objectives. We also introduce Risk-AwarePbRL (RA-PbRL), an algorithm designed to optimize both nested and static objectives. Additionally, we provide a theoretical analysis of the regret upper bounds, demonstrating that they are sublinear with respect to the number of episodes, and present empirical results to support our findings. Our code is available in https://github.com/aguilarjose11/PbRLNeurips.





## A new solution and concrete implementation steps for Artificial General Intelligence
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2308.09721v2
- **Authors**: ['Yongcong Chen', 'Ting Zeng', 'Xingyue Chen']
- **Abstrat**: In this paper, we propose a new approach to building a artificial general intelligence with self awareness, which includes: (1) a new method to implement attention mechanisms; (2) a way to give machines self-demands; (3) how to form a value evaluation system compatible with the network; (4) a way to create the world models; (5) how to realize a top-down, hierarchical thinking decision-making chain; (6) a way to achieve general decision-making and response capabilities; (7) a way for a machine to directly obtain human experience through language. In the paper, we first analyze some of the shortcomings of current LLMs (Large Language Model) and propose ideas for improvement. Then we analyze why our scheme can solve the above problems and provide detailed steps for implementing our scheme. In chapter 4, we have presented a step-by-step mplementation roadmap. And in chapter 5, we have presented a specific implementation demonstration. In chapter 6, we analyze the advantages and disadvantages of our scheme and propose further research directions. In this article, we have put forward how to create genuine artificial general intelligence step by step. It can handle data of all modalities in a unified form and can directly understand the experience that humans already possess through language, thus avoiding the problem that reinforcement learning is required for every decision-making process.





## Enhancing Sample Efficiency and Exploration in Reinforcement Learning through the Integration of Diffusion Models and Proximal Policy Optimization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.01427v4
- **Authors**: ['Gao Tianci', 'Dmitriev D. Dmitry', 'Konstantin A. Neusypin', 'Yang Bo', 'Rao Shengren']
- **Abstrat**: Recent advancements in reinforcement learning (RL) have been fueled by large-scale data and deep neural networks, particularly for high-dimensional and complex tasks. Online RL methods like Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) are effective in dynamic scenarios but require substantial real-time data, posing challenges in resource-constrained or slow simulation environments. Offline RL addresses this by pre-learning policies from large datasets, though its success depends on the quality and diversity of the data. This work proposes a framework that enhances PPO algorithms by incorporating a diffusion model to generate high-quality virtual trajectories for offline datasets. This approach improves exploration and sample efficiency, leading to significant gains in cumulative rewards, convergence speed, and strategy stability in complex tasks. Our contributions are threefold: we explore the potential of diffusion models in RL, particularly for offline datasets, extend the application of online RL to offline environments, and experimentally validate the performance improvements of PPO with diffusion models. These findings provide new insights and methods for applying RL to high-dimensional, complex tasks. Finally, we open-source our code at https://github.com/TianciGao/DiffPPO





## CALM: Curiosity-Driven Auditing for Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.02997v1
- **Authors**: ['Xiang Zheng', 'Longxiang Wang', 'Yi Liu', 'Xingjun Ma', 'Chao Shen', 'Cong Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Auditing Large Language Models (LLMs) is a crucial and challenging task. In this study, we focus on auditing black-box LLMs without access to their parameters, only to the provided service. We treat this type of auditing as a black-box optimization problem where the goal is to automatically uncover input-output pairs of the target LLMs that exhibit illegal, immoral, or unsafe behaviors. For instance, we may seek a non-toxic input that the target LLM responds to with a toxic output or an input that induces the hallucinative response from the target LLM containing politically sensitive individuals. This black-box optimization is challenging due to the scarcity of feasible points, the discrete nature of the prompt space, and the large search space. To address these challenges, we propose Curiosity-Driven Auditing for Large Language Models (CALM), which uses intrinsically motivated reinforcement learning to finetune an LLM as the auditor agent to uncover potential harmful and biased input-output pairs of the target LLM. CALM successfully identifies derogatory completions involving celebrities and uncovers inputs that elicit specific names under the black-box setting. This work offers a promising direction for auditing black-box LLMs. Our code is available at https://github.com/x-zheng16/CALM.git.





## CAMP: Collaborative Attention Model with Profiles for Vehicle Routing Problems
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.02977v1
- **Authors**: ['Chuanbo Hua', 'Federico Berto', 'Jiwoo Son', 'Seunghyun Kang', 'Changhyun Kwon', 'Jinkyoo Park']
- **Abstrat**: The profiled vehicle routing problem (PVRP) is a generalization of the heterogeneous capacitated vehicle routing problem (HCVRP) in which the objective is to optimize the routes of vehicles to serve client demands subject to different vehicle profiles, with each having a preference or constraint on a per-client basis. While existing learning methods have shown promise for solving the HCVRP in real-time, no learning method exists to solve the more practical and challenging PVRP. In this paper, we propose a Collaborative Attention Model with Profiles (CAMP), a novel approach that learns efficient solvers for PVRP using multi-agent reinforcement learning. CAMP employs a specialized attention-based encoder architecture to embed profiled client embeddings in parallel for each vehicle profile. We design a communication layer between agents for collaborative decision-making across profiled embeddings at each decoding step and a batched pointer mechanism to attend to the profiled embeddings to evaluate the likelihood of the next actions. We evaluate CAMP on two variants of PVRPs: PVRP with preferences, which explicitly influence the reward function, and PVRP with zone constraints with different numbers of agents and clients, demonstrating that our learned solvers achieve competitive results compared to both classical state-of-the-art neural multi-agent models in terms of solution quality and computational efficiency. We make our code openly available at https://github.com/ai4co/camp.





## Sim-to-Real Transfer for Mobile Robots with Reinforcement Learning: from NVIDIA Isaac Sim to Gazebo and Real ROS 2 Robots
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.02902v1
- **Authors**: ['Sahar Salimpour', 'Jorge Peña-Queralta', 'Diego Paez-Granados', 'Jukka Heikkonen', 'Tomi Westerlund']
- **Abstrat**: Unprecedented agility and dexterous manipulation have been demonstrated with controllers based on deep reinforcement learning (RL), with a significant impact on legged and humanoid robots. Modern tooling and simulation platforms, such as NVIDIA Isaac Sim, have been enabling such advances. This article focuses on demonstrating the applications of Isaac in local planning and obstacle avoidance as one of the most fundamental ways in which a mobile robot interacts with its environments. Although there is extensive research on proprioception-based RL policies, the article highlights less standardized and reproducible approaches to exteroception. At the same time, the article aims to provide a base framework for end-to-end local navigation policies and how a custom robot can be trained in such simulation environment. We benchmark end-to-end policies with the state-of-the-art Nav2, navigation stack in Robot Operating System (ROS). We also cover the sim-to-real transfer process by demonstrating zero-shot transferability of policies trained in the Isaac simulator to real-world robots. This is further evidenced by the tests with different simulated robots, which show the generalization of the learned policy. Finally, the benchmarks demonstrate comparable performance to Nav2, opening the door to quick deployment of state-of-the-art end-to-end local planners for custom robot platforms, but importantly furthering the possibilities by expanding the state and action spaces or task definitions for more complex missions. Overall, with this article we introduce the most important steps, and aspects to consider, in deploying RL policies for local path planning and obstacle avoidance with Isaac Sim training, Gazebo testing, and ROS 2 for real-time inference in real robots. The code is available at https://github.com/sahars93/RL-Navigation.





## Revisiting Communication Efficiency in Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning from the Dimensional Analysis Perspective
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.02888v1
- **Authors**: ['Chuxiong Sun', 'Peng He', 'Rui Wang', 'Changwen Zheng']
- **Abstrat**: In this work, we introduce a novel perspective, i.e., dimensional analysis, to address the challenge of communication efficiency in Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL). Our findings reveal that simply optimizing the content and timing of communication at sending end is insufficient to fully resolve communication efficiency issues. Even after applying optimized and gated messages, dimensional redundancy and confounders still persist in the integrated message embeddings at receiving end, which negatively impact communication quality and decision-making. To address these challenges, we propose Dimensional Rational Multi-Agent Communication (DRMAC), designed to mitigate both dimensional redundancy and confounders in MARL. DRMAC incorporates a redundancy-reduction regularization term to encourage the decoupling of information across dimensions within the learned representations of integrated messages. Additionally, we introduce a dimensional mask that dynamically adjusts gradient weights during training to eliminate the influence of decision-irrelevant dimensions. We evaluate DRMAC across a diverse set of multi-agent tasks, demonstrating its superior performance over existing state-of-the-art methods in complex scenarios. Furthermore, the plug-and-play nature of DRMAC's key modules highlights its generalizable performance, serving as a valuable complement rather than a replacement for existing multi-agent communication strategies.





## AgentForge: A Flexible Low-Code Platform for Reinforcement Learning Agent Design
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2410.19528v2
- **Authors**: ['Francisco Erivaldo Fernandes Junior', 'Antti Oulasvirta']
- **Abstrat**: Developing a reinforcement learning (RL) agent often involves identifying values for numerous parameters, covering the policy, reward function, environment, and agent-internal architecture. Since these parameters are interrelated in complex ways, optimizing them is a black-box problem that proves especially challenging for nonexperts. Although existing optimization-as-a-service platforms (e.g., Vizier and Optuna) can handle such problems, they are impractical for RL systems, since the need for manual user mapping of each parameter to distinct components makes the effort cumbersome. It also requires understanding of the optimization process, limiting the systems' application beyond the machine learning field and restricting access in areas such as cognitive science, which models human decision-making. To tackle these challenges, the paper presents \name, a flexible low-code platform to optimize any parameter set across an RL system. Available at https://github.com/feferna/AgentForge, it allows an optimization problem to be defined in a few lines of code and handed to any of the interfaced optimizers. With AgentForge, the user can optimize the parameters either individually or jointly. The paper presents an evaluation of its performance for a challenging vision-based RL problem.





## First-place Solution for Streetscape Shop Sign Recognition Competition
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.02811v1
- **Authors**: ['Bin Wang', 'Li Jing']
- **Abstrat**: Text recognition technology applied to street-view storefront signs is increasingly utilized across various practical domains, including map navigation, smart city planning analysis, and business value assessments in commercial districts. This technology holds significant research and commercial potential. Nevertheless, it faces numerous challenges. Street view images often contain signboards with complex designs and diverse text styles, complicating the text recognition process. A notable advancement in this field was introduced by our team in a recent competition. We developed a novel multistage approach that integrates multimodal feature fusion, extensive self-supervised training, and a Transformer-based large model. Furthermore, innovative techniques such as BoxDQN, which relies on reinforcement learning, and text rectification methods were employed, leading to impressive outcomes. Comprehensive experiments have validated the effectiveness of these methods, showcasing our potential to enhance text recognition capabilities in complex urban environments.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Sim-to-Real Transfer for Mobile Robots with Reinforcement Learning: from NVIDIA Isaac Sim to Gazebo and Real ROS 2 Robots
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.02902v1
- **Authors**: ['Sahar Salimpour', 'Jorge Peña-Queralta', 'Diego Paez-Granados', 'Jukka Heikkonen', 'Tomi Westerlund']
- **Abstrat**: Unprecedented agility and dexterous manipulation have been demonstrated with controllers based on deep reinforcement learning (RL), with a significant impact on legged and humanoid robots. Modern tooling and simulation platforms, such as NVIDIA Isaac Sim, have been enabling such advances. This article focuses on demonstrating the applications of Isaac in local planning and obstacle avoidance as one of the most fundamental ways in which a mobile robot interacts with its environments. Although there is extensive research on proprioception-based RL policies, the article highlights less standardized and reproducible approaches to exteroception. At the same time, the article aims to provide a base framework for end-to-end local navigation policies and how a custom robot can be trained in such simulation environment. We benchmark end-to-end policies with the state-of-the-art Nav2, navigation stack in Robot Operating System (ROS). We also cover the sim-to-real transfer process by demonstrating zero-shot transferability of policies trained in the Isaac simulator to real-world robots. This is further evidenced by the tests with different simulated robots, which show the generalization of the learned policy. Finally, the benchmarks demonstrate comparable performance to Nav2, opening the door to quick deployment of state-of-the-art end-to-end local planners for custom robot platforms, but importantly furthering the possibilities by expanding the state and action spaces or task definitions for more complex missions. Overall, with this article we introduce the most important steps, and aspects to consider, in deploying RL policies for local path planning and obstacle avoidance with Isaac Sim training, Gazebo testing, and ROS 2 for real-time inference in real robots. The code is available at https://github.com/sahars93/RL-Navigation.




