# reinforcement learning
## Towards Large Reasoning Models: A Survey of Reinforced Reasoning with Large Language Models
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09686v1
- **Authors**: ['Fengli Xu', 'Qianyue Hao', 'Zefang Zong', 'Jingwei Wang', 'Yunke Zhang', 'Jingyi Wang', 'Xiaochong Lan', 'Jiahui Gong', 'Tianjian Ouyang', 'Fanjin Meng', 'Chenyang Shao', 'Yuwei Yan', 'Qinglong Yang', 'Yiwen Song', 'Sijian Ren', 'Xinyuan Hu', 'Yu Li', 'Jie Feng', 'Chen Gao', 'Yong Li']
- **Abstrat**: Language has long been conceived as an essential tool for human reasoning. The breakthrough of Large Language Models (LLMs) has sparked significant research interest in leveraging these models to tackle complex reasoning tasks. Researchers have moved beyond simple autoregressive token generation by introducing the concept of "thought" -- a sequence of tokens representing intermediate steps in the reasoning process. This innovative paradigm enables LLMs' to mimic complex human reasoning processes, such as tree search and reflective thinking. Recently, an emerging trend of learning to reason has applied reinforcement learning (RL) to train LLMs to master reasoning processes. This approach enables the automatic generation of high-quality reasoning trajectories through trial-and-error search algorithms, significantly expanding LLMs' reasoning capacity by providing substantially more training data. Furthermore, recent studies demonstrate that encouraging LLMs to "think" with more tokens during test-time inference can further significantly boost reasoning accuracy. Therefore, the train-time and test-time scaling combined to show a new research frontier -- a path toward Large Reasoning Model. The introduction of OpenAI's o1 series marks a significant milestone in this research direction. In this survey, we present a comprehensive review of recent progress in LLM reasoning. We begin by introducing the foundational background of LLMs and then explore the key technical components driving the development of large reasoning models, with a focus on automated data construction, learning-to-reason techniques, and test-time scaling. We also analyze popular open-source projects at building large reasoning models, and conclude with open challenges and future research directions.





## Dynamics of Moral Behavior in Heterogeneous Populations of Learning Agents
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.04202v7
- **Authors**: ['Elizaveta Tennant', 'Stephen Hailes', 'Mirco Musolesi']
- **Abstrat**: Growing concerns about safety and alignment of AI systems highlight the importance of embedding moral capabilities in artificial agents: a promising solution is the use of learning from experience, i.e., Reinforcement Learning. In multi-agent (social) environments, complex population-level phenomena may emerge from interactions between individual learning agents. Many of the existing studies rely on simulated social dilemma environments to study the interactions of independent learning agents; however, they tend to ignore the moral heterogeneity that is likely to be present in societies of agents in practice. For example, at different points in time a single learning agent may face opponents who are consequentialist (i.e., focused on maximizing outcomes over time), norm-based (i.e., conforming to specific norms), or virtue-based (i.e., considering a combination of different virtues). The extent to which agents' co-development may be impacted by such moral heterogeneity in populations is not well understood. In this paper, we present a study of the learning dynamics of morally heterogeneous populations interacting in a social dilemma setting. Using an Iterated Prisoner's Dilemma environment with a partner selection mechanism, we investigate the extent to which the prevalence of diverse moral agents in populations affects individual agents' learning behaviors and emergent population-level outcomes. We observe several types of non-trivial interactions between pro-social and anti-social agents, and find that certain types of moral agents are able to steer selfish agents towards more cooperative behavior.





## Optimizing hypergraph product codes with random walks, simulated annealing and reinforcement learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09622v1
- **Authors**: ['Bruno C. A. Freire', 'Nicolas Delfosse', 'Anthony Leverrier']
- **Abstrat**: Hypergraph products are quantum low-density parity-check (LDPC) codes constructed from two classical LDPC codes. Although their dimension and distance depend only on the parameters of the underlying classical codes, optimizing their performance against various noise channels remains challenging. This difficulty partly stems from the complexity of decoding in the quantum setting. The standard, ad hoc approach typically involves selecting classical LDPC codes with large girth. In this work, we focus on optimizing performance against the quantum erasure channel. A key advantage of this channel is the existence of an efficient maximum-likelihood decoder, which enables us to employ optimization techniques based on sampling random codes, such as Reinforcement Learning (RL) and Simulated Annealing (SA). Our results indicate that these techniques improve performance relative to the state-of-the-art.





## Beyond Reward Hacking: Causal Rewards for Large Language Model Alignment
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09620v1
- **Authors**: ['Chaoqi Wang', 'Zhuokai Zhao', 'Yibo Jiang', 'Zhaorun Chen', 'Chen Zhu', 'Yuxin Chen', 'Jiayi Liu', 'Lizhu Zhang', 'Xiangjun Fan', 'Hao Ma', 'Sinong Wang']
- **Abstrat**: Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated significant progress in performing complex tasks. While Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) has been effective in aligning LLMs with human preferences, it is susceptible to spurious correlations in reward modeling. Consequently, it often introduces biases-such as length bias, sycophancy, conceptual bias, and discrimination that hinder the model's ability to capture true causal relationships. To address this, we propose a novel causal reward modeling approach that integrates causal inference to mitigate these spurious correlations. Our method enforces counterfactual invariance, ensuring reward predictions remain consistent when irrelevant variables are altered. Through experiments on both synthetic and real-world datasets, we show that our approach mitigates various types of spurious correlations effectively, resulting in more reliable and fair alignment of LLMs with human preferences. As a drop-in enhancement to the existing RLHF workflow, our causal reward modeling provides a practical way to improve the trustworthiness and fairness of LLM finetuning.





## Hybrid Approaches for Moral Value Alignment in AI Agents: a Manifesto
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2312.01818v3
- **Authors**: ['Elizaveta Tennant', 'Stephen Hailes', 'Mirco Musolesi']
- **Abstrat**: Increasing interest in ensuring the safety of next-generation Artificial Intelligence (AI) systems calls for novel approaches to embedding morality into autonomous agents. This goal differs qualitatively from traditional task-specific AI methodologies. In this paper, we provide a systematization of existing approaches to the problem of introducing morality in machines -modelled as a continuum. Our analysis suggests that popular techniques lie at the extremes of this continuum - either being fully hard-coded into top-down, explicit rules, or entirely learned in a bottom-up, implicit fashion with no direct statement of any moral principle (this includes learning from human feedback, as applied to the training and finetuning of large language models, or LLMs). Given the relative strengths and weaknesses of each type of methodology, we argue that more hybrid solutions are needed to create adaptable and robust, yet controllable and interpretable agentic systems. To that end, this paper discusses both the ethical foundations (including deontology, consequentialism and virtue ethics) and implementations of morally aligned AI systems.   We present a series of case studies that rely on intrinsic rewards, moral constraints or textual instructions, applied to either pure-Reinforcement Learning or LLM-based agents. By analysing these diverse implementations under one framework, we compare their relative strengths and shortcomings in developing morally aligned AI systems. We then discuss strategies for evaluating the effectiveness of moral learning agents. Finally, we present open research questions and implications for the future of AI safety and ethics which are emerging from this hybrid framework.





## EVaDE : Event-Based Variational Thompson Sampling for Model-Based Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09611v1
- **Authors**: ['Siddharth Aravindan', 'Dixant Mittal', 'Wee Sun Lee']
- **Abstrat**: Posterior Sampling for Reinforcement Learning (PSRL) is a well-known algorithm that augments model-based reinforcement learning (MBRL) algorithms with Thompson sampling. PSRL maintains posterior distributions of the environment transition dynamics and the reward function, which are intractable for tasks with high-dimensional state and action spaces. Recent works show that dropout, used in conjunction with neural networks, induces variational distributions that can approximate these posteriors. In this paper, we propose Event-based Variational Distributions for Exploration (EVaDE), which are variational distributions that are useful for MBRL, especially when the underlying domain is object-based. We leverage the general domain knowledge of object-based domains to design three types of event-based convolutional layers to direct exploration. These layers rely on Gaussian dropouts and are inserted between the layers of the deep neural network model to help facilitate variational Thompson sampling. We empirically show the effectiveness of EVaDE-equipped Simulated Policy Learning (EVaDE-SimPLe) on the 100K Atari game suite.





## Safe Control and Learning Using the Generalized Action Governor
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2211.12628v2
- **Authors**: ['Nan Li', 'Yutong Li', 'Ilya Kolmanovsky', 'Anouck Girard', 'H. Eric Tseng', 'Dimitar Filev']
- **Abstrat**: This article introduces a general framework for safe control and learning based on the generalized action governor (AG). The AG is a supervisory scheme for augmenting a nominal closed-loop system with the ability of strictly handling prescribed safety constraints. In the first part of this article, we present a generalized AG methodology and analyze its key properties in a general setting. Then, we introduce tailored AG design approaches derived from the generalized methodology for linear and discrete systems. Afterward, we discuss the application of the generalized AG to facilitate safe online learning, which aims at safely evolving control parameters using real-time data to enhance control performance in uncertain systems. We present two safe learning algorithms based on, respectively, reinforcement learning and data-driven Koopman operator-based control integrated with the generalized AG to exemplify this application. Finally, we illustrate the developments with a numerical example.





## RE-POSE: Synergizing Reinforcement Learning-Based Partitioning and Offloading for Edge Object Detection
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09465v1
- **Authors**: ['Jianrui Shi', 'Yong Zhao', 'Zeyang Cui', 'Xiaoming Shen', 'Minhang Zeng', 'Xiaojie Liu']
- **Abstrat**: Object detection plays a crucial role in smart video analysis, with applications ranging from autonomous driving and security to smart cities. However, achieving real-time object detection on edge devices presents significant challenges due to their limited computational resources and the high demands of deep neural network (DNN)-based detection models, particularly when processing high-resolution video. Conventional strategies, such as input down-sampling and network up-scaling, often compromise detection accuracy for faster performance or lead to higher inference latency. To address these issues, this paper introduces RE-POSE, a Reinforcement Learning (RL)-Driven Partitioning and Edge Offloading framework designed to optimize the accuracy-latency trade-off in resource-constrained edge environments. Our approach features an RL-Based Dynamic Clustering Algorithm (RL-DCA) that partitions video frames into non-uniform blocks based on object distribution and the computational characteristics of DNNs. Furthermore, a parallel edge offloading scheme is implemented to distribute these blocks across multiple edge servers for concurrent processing. Experimental evaluations show that RE-POSE significantly enhances detection accuracy and reduces inference latency, surpassing existing methods.





## Contrastive Policy Gradient: Aligning LLMs on sequence-level scores in a supervised-friendly fashion
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.19185v2
- **Authors**: ['Yannis Flet-Berliac', 'Nathan Grinsztajn', 'Florian Strub', 'Bill Wu', 'Eugene Choi', 'Chris Cremer', 'Arash Ahmadian', 'Yash Chandak', 'Mohammad Gheshlaghi Azar', 'Olivier Pietquin', 'Matthieu Geist']
- **Abstrat**: Reinforcement Learning (RL) has been used to finetune Large Language Models (LLMs) using a reward model trained from preference data, to better align with human judgment. The recently introduced direct alignment methods, which are often simpler, more stable, and computationally lighter, can more directly achieve this. However, these approaches cannot optimize arbitrary rewards, and the preference-based ones are not the only rewards of interest for LLMs (eg., unit tests for code generation or textual entailment for summarization, among others). RL-finetuning is usually done with a variation of policy gradient, which calls for on-policy or near-on-policy samples, requiring costly generations. We introduce Contrastive Policy Gradient, or CoPG, a simple and mathematically principled new RL algorithm that can estimate the optimal policy even from off-policy data. It can be seen as an off-policy policy gradient approach that does not rely on important sampling techniques and highlights the importance of using (the right) state baseline. We show this approach to generalize the direct alignment method IPO (identity preference optimization) and classic policy gradient. We experiment with the proposed CoPG on a toy bandit problem to illustrate its properties, as well as for finetuning LLMs on a summarization task, using a learned reward function considered as ground truth for the purpose of the experiments.





## ADAGE: A generic two-layer framework for adaptive agent based modelling
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09429v1
- **Authors**: ['Benjamin Patrick Evans', 'Sihan Zeng', 'Sumitra Ganesh', 'Leo Ardon']
- **Abstrat**: Agent-based models (ABMs) are valuable for modelling complex, potentially out-of-equilibria scenarios. However, ABMs have long suffered from the Lucas critique, stating that agent behaviour should adapt to environmental changes. Furthermore, the environment itself often adapts to these behavioural changes, creating a complex bi-level adaptation problem. Recent progress integrating multi-agent reinforcement learning into ABMs introduces adaptive agent behaviour, beginning to address the first part of this critique, however, the approaches are still relatively ad hoc, lacking a general formulation, and furthermore, do not tackle the second aspect of simultaneously adapting environmental level characteristics in addition to the agent behaviours. In this work, we develop a generic two-layer framework for ADaptive AGEnt based modelling (ADAGE) for addressing these problems. This framework formalises the bi-level problem as a Stackelberg game with conditional behavioural policies, providing a consolidated framework for adaptive agent-based modelling based on solving a coupled set of non-linear equations. We demonstrate how this generic approach encapsulates several common (previously viewed as distinct) ABM tasks, such as policy design, calibration, scenario generation, and robust behavioural learning under one unified framework. We provide example simulations on multiple complex economic and financial environments, showing the strength of the novel framework under these canonical settings, addressing long-standing critiques of traditional ABMs.





## Fast Searching of Extreme Operating Conditions for Relay Protection Setting Calculation Based on Graph Neural Network and Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09399v1
- **Authors**: ['Yan Li', 'Jingyu Wang', 'Jiankang Zhang', 'Huaiqiang Li', 'Longfei Ren', 'Yinhong Li', 'Dongyuan Shi', 'Xianzhong Duan']
- **Abstrat**: Searching for the Extreme Operating Conditions (EOCs) is one of the core problems of power system relay protection setting calculation. The current methods based on brute-force search, heuristic algorithms, and mathematical programming can hardly meet the requirements of today's power systems in terms of computation speed due to the drastic changes in operating conditions induced by renewables and power electronics. This paper proposes an EOC fast search method, named Graph Dueling Double Deep Q Network (Graph D3QN), which combines graph neural network and deep reinforcement learning to address this challenge. First, the EOC search problem is modeled as a Markov decision process, where the information of the underlying power system is extracted using graph neural networks, so that the EOC of the system can be found via deep reinforcement learning. Then, a two-stage Guided Learning and Free Exploration (GLFE) training framework is constructed to accelerate the convergence speed of reinforcement learning. Finally, the proposed Graph D3QN method is validated through case studies of searching maximum fault current for relay protection setting calculation on the IEEE 39-bus and 118-bus systems. The experimental results demonstrate that Graph D3QN can reduce the computation time by 10 to 1000 times while guaranteeing the accuracy of the selected EOCs.





## Deterministic Uncertainty Propagation for Improved Model-Based Offline Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.04088v3
- **Authors**: ['Abdullah Akgül', 'Manuel Haußmann', 'Melih Kandemir']
- **Abstrat**: Current approaches to model-based offline reinforcement learning often incorporate uncertainty-based reward penalization to address the distributional shift problem. These approaches, commonly known as pessimistic value iteration, use Monte Carlo sampling to estimate the Bellman target to perform temporal difference-based policy evaluation. We find out that the randomness caused by this sampling step significantly delays convergence. We present a theoretical result demonstrating the strong dependency of suboptimality on the number of Monte Carlo samples taken per Bellman target calculation. Our main contribution is a deterministic approximation to the Bellman target that uses progressive moment matching, a method developed originally for deterministic variational inference. The resulting algorithm, which we call Moment Matching Offline Model-Based Policy Optimization (MOMBO), propagates the uncertainty of the next state through a nonlinear Q-network in a deterministic fashion by approximating the distributions of hidden layer activations by a normal distribution. We show that it is possible to provide tighter guarantees for the suboptimality of MOMBO than the existing Monte Carlo sampling approaches. We also observe MOMBO to converge faster than these approaches in a large set of benchmark tasks.





## Contract-Inspired Contest Theory for Controllable Image Generation in Mobile Edge Metaverse
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09391v1
- **Authors**: ['Guangyuan Liu', 'Hongyang Du', 'Jiacheng Wang', 'Dusit Niyato', 'Dong In Kim']
- **Abstrat**: The rapid advancement of immersive technologies has propelled the development of the Metaverse, where the convergence of virtual and physical realities necessitates the generation of high-quality, photorealistic images to enhance user experience. However, generating these images, especially through Generative Diffusion Models (GDMs), in mobile edge computing environments presents significant challenges due to the limited computing resources of edge devices and the dynamic nature of wireless networks. This paper proposes a novel framework that integrates contract-inspired contest theory, Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL), and GDMs to optimize image generation in these resource-constrained environments. The framework addresses the critical challenges of resource allocation and semantic data transmission quality by incentivizing edge devices to efficiently transmit high-quality semantic data, which is essential for creating realistic and immersive images. The use of contest and contract theory ensures that edge devices are motivated to allocate resources effectively, while DRL dynamically adjusts to network conditions, optimizing the overall image generation process. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed approach not only improves the quality of generated images but also achieves superior convergence speed and stability compared to traditional methods. This makes the framework particularly effective for optimizing complex resource allocation tasks in mobile edge Metaverse applications, offering enhanced performance and efficiency in creating immersive virtual environments.





## Adaptive Contextual Caching for Mobile Edge Large Language Model Service
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09383v1
- **Authors**: ['Guangyuan Liu', 'Yinqiu Liu', 'Jiacheng Wang', 'Hongyang Du', 'Dusit Niyato', 'Jiawen Kang', 'Zehui Xiong']
- **Abstrat**: Mobile edge Large Language Model (LLM) deployments face inherent constraints, such as limited computational resources and network bandwidth. Although Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) mitigates some challenges by integrating external knowledge bases, inefficient cache management can still result in high retrieval latency and frequent cache updates. To address these issues, we propose an Adaptive Contextual Caching (ACC) framework that anticipates user needs by proactively caching semantically relevant data for mobile-edge LLMs. ACC utilizes a deep reinforcement learning (DRL) module to refine cache replacement policies, balancing user context, document similarity, and the overhead associated with cache misses. Experimental results demonstrate that ACC increases cache hit rates to over 80\% after only 11 training episodes, outperforming FIFO, LRU, and semantic-only caching while reducing retrieval latency by up to 40\%. In particular, ACC also reduces local caching overhead (i.e., the cost of updating the cache when a miss occurs) by as much as 55\%, enabling scalable, low-latency LLM services in resource-constrained edge environments.





## Balancing Act: Prioritization Strategies for LLM-Designed Restless Bandit Rewards
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.12112v3
- **Authors**: ['Shresth Verma', 'Niclas Boehmer', 'Lingkai Kong', 'Milind Tambe']
- **Abstrat**: LLMs are increasingly used to design reward functions based on human preferences in Reinforcement Learning (RL). We focus on LLM-designed rewards for Restless Multi-Armed Bandits, a framework for allocating limited resources among agents. In applications such as public health, this approach empowers grassroots health workers to tailor automated allocation decisions to community needs. In the presence of multiple agents, altering the reward function based on human preferences can impact subpopulations very differently, leading to complex tradeoffs and a multi-objective resource allocation problem. We are the first to present a principled method termed Social Choice Language Model for dealing with these tradeoffs for LLM-designed rewards for multiagent planners in general and restless bandits in particular. The novel part of our model is a transparent and configurable selection component, called an adjudicator, external to the LLM that controls complex tradeoffs via a user-selected social welfare function. Our experiments demonstrate that our model reliably selects more effective, aligned, and balanced reward functions compared to purely LLM-based approaches.





## Learning to Assist Humans without Inferring Rewards
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02623v3
- **Authors**: ['Vivek Myers', 'Evan Ellis', 'Sergey Levine', 'Benjamin Eysenbach', 'Anca Dragan']
- **Abstrat**: Assistive agents should make humans' lives easier. Classically, such assistance is studied through the lens of inverse reinforcement learning, where an assistive agent (e.g., a chatbot, a robot) infers a human's intention and then selects actions to help the human reach that goal. This approach requires inferring intentions, which can be difficult in high-dimensional settings. We build upon prior work that studies assistance through the lens of empowerment: an assistive agent aims to maximize the influence of the human's actions such that they exert a greater control over the environmental outcomes and can solve tasks in fewer steps. We lift the major limitation of prior work in this area--scalability to high-dimensional settings--with contrastive successor representations. We formally prove that these representations estimate a similar notion of empowerment to that studied by prior work and provide a ready-made mechanism for optimizing it. Empirically, our proposed method outperforms prior methods on synthetic benchmarks, and scales to Overcooked, a cooperative game setting. Theoretically, our work connects ideas from information theory, neuroscience, and reinforcement learning, and charts a path for representations to play a critical role in solving assistive problems.





# TD3
# Prioritized Experience Replay
# path planning
## Path Planning for a UAV Swarm Using Formation Teaching-Learning-Based Optimization
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09357v1
- **Authors**: ['Van Truong Hoang', 'Manh Duong Phung']
- **Abstrat**: This work addresses the path planning problem for a group of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) to maintain a desired formation during operation. Our approach formulates the problem as an optimization task by defining a set of fitness functions that not only ensure the formation but also include constraints for optimal and safe UAV operation. To optimize the fitness function and obtain a suboptimal path, we employ the teaching-learning-based optimization algorithm and then further enhance it with mechanisms such as mutation, elite strategy, and multi-subject combination. A number of simulations and experiments have been conducted to evaluate the proposed method. The results demonstrate that the algorithm successfully generates valid paths for the UAVs to fly in a triangular formation for an inspection task.





## Robust UAV Path Planning with Obstacle Avoidance for Emergency Rescue
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2501.09338v1
- **Authors**: ['Junteng Mao', 'Ziye Jia', 'Hanzhi Gu', 'Chenyu Shi', 'Haomin Shi', 'Lijun He', 'Qihui Wu']
- **Abstrat**: The unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are efficient tools for diverse tasks such as electronic reconnaissance, agricultural operations and disaster relief. In the complex three-dimensional (3D) environments, the path planning with obstacle avoidance for UAVs is a significant issue for security assurance. In this paper, we construct a comprehensive 3D scenario with obstacles and no-fly zones for dynamic UAV trajectory. Moreover, a novel artificial potential field algorithm coupled with simulated annealing (APF-SA) is proposed to tackle the robust path planning problem. APF-SA modifies the attractive and repulsive potential functions and leverages simulated annealing to escape local minimum and converge to globally optimal solutions. Simulation results demonstrate that the effectiveness of APF-SA, enabling efficient autonomous path planning for UAVs with obstacle avoidance.




